---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #48, Mar 3 2016"
layout: meetings
---

# HSF Weekly #48 03/03/16

[Indico Agenda](https://indico.cern.ch/event/505923/)

Present: Benedikt, Andrea, Pere, Paolo Calafiura, Andrew, Michel, Liz, Ben Morgan 


## News
- LHCC Reviewers meeting. Presentation by Benedikt (60% of slides from HSF).
  - Main message is that software is one of the major topics. Collaborations across experiments very fruitful 
    but little or no support from the institutions/organizations. Mainly based on the good will of developers.
  - Next meeting in half-year and a report on the progress es expected.
- Invitation from GridKA School for a talk about HSF.

## May HSF workshop progress
- Announcement went out on Tuesday. There has been some forwards to other mailing lists such as the GDB, CMS, 
  but we need to encourage forwarding the announcement by the experiments. 
- The HSF website does not says anything about it. --> Action Michel.
- Doodle poll: 12 people has participated so far.
- Invitations
  - Wolfgang Hubert has kindly accepted to participate on the plenary session on Monday to present "BioConductor"
  - Liz has invited a DOE/NSF manager. Report on community efforts on NSF.
  - Michel contacted some people from CTA and Auger. 
  - Jason Priem from Depsy also invited by Andrea. Overview on how Depsy works. 
- The idea is to start filling the agenda by end of next week.
- From the logistics things are in pretty good shape. Next is to get better estimate of the 
  people and to eventually review the plan. 
- We monitor the progress next week.

## Round table for activities updates

### TNs
- Package TN
  - If Liz have the PDF, it can be upload now. Otherwise Andrew is also happy to generate it. 
  - Andrew will send  a mail to the technical forum  mailing list to start the consultation. 
  - Comments should come in one week.
- Licensing TN
  - Is done.  There was some confusion that got clarified and now is published. 
- The URL to download the PDF should be corrected pointing to the raw document.
- Agree that the final documents (PDFs) should go to the HSF web area, where only few people 
  can access, so we reduce the chance of mistakes. 
- Andrew will make a post with the instructions.

### Packaging
- See the TN just above.
- Spack activity connected to the hackathon at the workshop. 
  Benedikt will have little time to get further involved and to look into the still 
  open points of the Spack solution.
- Meetings of the Spack community. Jim Amundson and Brett Viren did participate to them in the past. 
  It would be nice if they could go there and report back.

### Training 
- WikiToLearn development sprint at CERN next week.

### Logo contest 
- Nothing new.

### Knowledge base
- Call for people to contribute by adding and updating content. Feedback to the user interface 
  and content would be highly appreciated.  

## AOB
- Benedikt:Connecting the dot workshop last week.  
  ATLAS presented the ATS software experiment independent reconstruction (tracking) softare. 
  Got the interest of Vincenzo Innocente from CMS. Next common tracking forum could be dedicated to this topic.  
- Benedikt: The licencing TN was holding the new issue of the HSF NewsLetter. 
  Michel agreed to do it before the end of the week.
  

