---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #58, June 9, 2016"
layout: meetings
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #58, June 9, 2016

### Contents
{:.no_toc}

* auto-gen TOC:
{:toc}


#### *Present*: Frank Gaede, Pere Mato, Patricia Mendez, Michel Jouvin, Andrea Valassi, Gilherme Amadio,Torre Wenaus, Benedikt Hegner, Jim Pivarski

## News, general matters

-   Frank met the chairman of ICFA to seek endorsement. They are restructuring at this moment. In the February meeting would be a good time for a formal presentation and to get some official statement (an endorsement). Some reservations to become a ICFA panel. We should iterate on this proposition. Very encouraging. We need to have something done by september.

-   In the planned meeting with E. Elsen, WLCG should also WLCG (I. Bird) represented (potential link between CWP and HL-LHC computing TDR).

-   Springer journal: a meeting next Monday at CERN with several proponents of the journal at CERN. C. Caron would be there. A good occasion to make progress.

## Current Topics

### CWP kickoff meeting

-   Torre: ½ day at CHEP would be the best, better than additional days before and after.

-   Pere: The main purpose is organizational so half day should be probably sufficient.

-   Trying to organize something disconnected from CHEP would be more difficult.

-   Consensus to have this ½ day. We need to discuss with Ian asap. Andrea has already asked him and Sunday afternoon seems to be a good option. Agreed that Andrea will conform with him (confirmed, but to be discussed at WLCG-MG Tuesday June 22). We need to have the feedback from Pete.

## Activity updates

### Packaging

-   Quite a lot of activity in the repo (mainly P. Gartung).

-   Several participate to the Spack developer meeting: several PRs in progress and some ready to be merged.

### StackExchange

-   LHCb already has its own solution and not necessarily motivated to move to something else, at least in the short term.

-   ROOT: Axel in principle opened but he says that if migrating to something else, ROOTTalk contents should be migrated… Seems difficult. Would a readonly ROOTTalk be acceptable? Pere: need to keep ROOTTalk anyway as we cannot break existing links (in favor of a keeping a readonly ROOTTalk).

### Licensing

-   GeantV/VecGeom wants to use Apache 2.0, following the HSF recommendations. Not clear about the copyright ownership.

-   ATLAS is also discussing the license it will use: no strong opinion on viral vs. permissive… Not yet decided. Copyright will be held by CERN for the benefit of the ATLAS collaboration. Specific problem of some GPL licensed components.

-   CERN IT has a person now responsible for helping CERN users/collaborations/projects in their SW licensing policy.

### Projects

-   Michel contacted Mike Sokoloff. No reply yet.

-   Contacted Andrea Formica for the conditions.

### Training

-   We need to follow-up with the ice cube people. A mail was sent 2 weeks ago.

## AOB

. - Follow-up with Vincenzo, Paolo and Markus about plans on SW performance after the workshop
