---
title: "Startup Team Minutes #45"
layout: meetings
---

# HSF Startup Team Meeting Feb 11 2016

[Indico Agenda](https://indico.cern.ch/event/496336/)

Present: Benedikt, Liz, Pere, John, Marco Clemencic, Dario, Andrew, Riccardo Iaconelli, Guilherme Amadio 

## News
- No news

## May HSF workshop progress

- Michel has created an Indico event, as discussed at our last meeting: https://indico.cern.ch/event/496146/.
- He has also started to work on a preliminary budget. For 100 people, the estimate of 18 k€ including 
  the logistics (15%), the lunch and coffee breaks (40%) and a social event in Paris (45%). 
  That would mean registration fees = 175€ for covering everything.
- The general opinion was that this budget looks very reasonable. No objections. 
- We probably need to send a first bulletin for people to plan the trip as soon as possible. 

## Round table for activities updates

### TNs
- The TN on *Licensing* will have the last changes to be put there. People are very much convinced. 
- The TN on *Machine/Job Features* is in consultation phase. This phase finishes next friday. 
  It will be discussed are the LCG Operation and Coordination meeting. Distributed to the LCG committee for comments.
  To become a rollout campaign for the sites.

### Packaging
- Benedikt reported on the last meeting for packaging group. It was devoted to present the *Spack* tool, 
  which is a new tool from the HPC community. It is a the outcome of similar review as we are doing. It seems to fulfill
most of the requirements. Binary installation and relocation are missing. This could be part of the next workshop. 
- This new tool will be added to the TN reviewing the tools.  

### Training
- Dario thanked Benedikt to involve other people to the working group.
- Ricardo added the LHCb training material to the WTL (WikiToLearn) as an exercise to see how simple or complicated it is. 
  This is not to be viewed as the 'only' way to provide the material to WTL. It is only a way that makes access very easy.
- The material was converted with script from the Markdown format to Wiki format. The result is very encouraging. 
  WTL can add semantic features and not only visualization (CSS) features.
- Uploading preformatted documents is possible but not recommended. 
  It is a collaborative effort to ensure that the material is maintained alive. 
- It woould be nice to have the help from the ROOT team to start populating with some of existing the material. 
- He is pursuing on how to interact and collaborate with other communities, like for example the software-carpentry community.
  They are specialized on workshops. HSF could provide the material for training.       

- There will be a WikiToLearn sprint at CERN from March 7th to 12th on Idea2 area. This is good place to show up for
  people engaged on training. Praticipation from editors and developers with the goal to improve WTL platform. 
  Dario will send a mail with information about the event to the HSF Forum list.
 
### Next newsletter
- Once the licensing TN is out, we need a new newsletter. 

### Logo contest 
- How to proceed? Dario will re-send an mail to remind people of the contest. The closing date for new proposal on April 18th.   

### Knowledge base
- People should be able to modify or add information into the KB. A help page exists to guide you.


## AOB
- Liz sent the announcement of the *HEP Forum for Computational Excellence* that is organizing an open community-wide 
  meeting to be held March 16-17 at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. There is no agenda yet. 
  Liz and probably Torre will participate.
- Funding agencies in the US are pushing collaborations towards HPC resources. 
  This implies that software will need to be adapted. This is not the case in Europe so far.



