---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #60, June 23, 2016"
layout: meetings
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #60, June 23, 2016

### Contents
{:.no_toc}

* auto-gen TOC:
{:toc}

#### *Present*: Pere Mato, Michel Jouvin, Dario Menasce, Guilherme Amadio, Patricia Mendez, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, Pete Elmer, Andrea Valassi

## News, general matters

-   We will setup a Doodle to find a better slot for the weekly meeting.

## Current Topics.

### CWP 

-   Another ingredient is the need for WLCG to produce the ‘Software Roadmap for HL-LHC’ document. Ian will be writing a charge for it. The HSF will be helping organizing it. This document will derive from general one as we call it Community White Paper (CWP).

-   The needs for WLCG are somehow similar to what Pete will have to produce for NSF documents.

-   In a recent discussion between Pete, Torre, Pere and Mike it was thought to have pre-meeting in September, mainly an organizational meeting, with the identified people on the various working groups. The idea is to organize the meeting in a couple of afternoons with remote participation. The goal should be to establish a plan with the formation of working groups, wat topical workshops to organize, and overall schedule, etc.

-   Then we will have the meeting (kickoff meeting?) on the Sunday afternoon during the WLCG workshop prior CHEP at San Francisco to inform the community and get feedback.

-   A general workshop later in the year (November-December time scale) with ½ day plenary and several parallel working groups sessions.

-   Later several topical workshops (data science, data preservation, performance, )

-   Dates of meetings need to be concretized rather soon. Pete is compiling a Google calendar with all the experiments’ week meetings.

-   Summary: working towards the meeting in September. The charge being produced by Ian will be iterated in the time scale of one week.

## Activity updates

### Training

-   Start a collaboration with the ICEcube people. We didn’t have news for a while, but they are still interested. Dario will re-iterate with them. This will be an occasion for contributing with concrete training material.

-   W2L tools being improved. The contents with university courses is increasing rapidly.

### StackExchange

-   Andrea has been invited to present this ideas to the SFT group meeting.

### Packagaing

-   A lot of activity on the Spack git repository. Some of the needed patches are already integrated upstream. Integrating the idea of the ‘view’ existing in *lcgcmake* system..

-   New technical student in CERN SFT group will be allocated to evaluate Spack and integrate it to the LCG needs.

### Licencing

-   Pere mentioned that a student has started at the Knowledge Transfer (KT) group at CERN to develop or use existing tools to analyse software to extract author and copyright holders information. We should get a presentation of the actual direction and initial findings in a couple of months.

## AOB

-   None


