---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #53, Apr 21 2016"
layout: meetings
---

# HSF Weekly #53 21/04/16

[Indico Agenda](https://indico.cern.ch/event/523494/)

Present: Benedikt, Andrea, Pere, Frank, Michel

## News, general matters
- Information on the Software Technical Forum has been added under discussion Forums. A change is needed into 
 the site to be able to promote to the first page some important announcements or important news. Next week Benedikt will
 show a prototype of it. 

## May HSF workshop program

- [Workshop page](https://indico.cern.ch/event/496146/)
- [Timetable](https://indico.cern.ch/event/496146/other-view?view=standard)
- [doodle poll](http://doodle.com/poll/8hpxredhnci2i8xh)

### General
- So far about 60 people have resgistered.
- The social dinner will take place in "La Baleine" 

### Session updates:

**HSF Status**

- The HSF status presentation would be given by either by Torre or Pere. Pere will check with Torre and come with a decision. 
  The one that do not give the presentation should be chairing the 'HSF Next Steps' session. 
- Proposals (like the one of using stackoverflow for HSF) should be included in the initial status talk to give time 
  during the workshop to discuss and come with a conclusion at the end.  
- Agreed to start at 9 o'clock on Tuesday and Wednesday.

**Learning from Other Communities**
- Andrea is following up the Registration of the Depsy speaker. He needs a lightweight account.

**ML**

- The session seems in good shape.

**Packaging**

Benedikt and Liz had a discussion. Patrick Gartung Partrick will make the initial spack presentation. 
Then it will follow an evaluation and hands on (hackathon).

**SW performance**

- Vincenzo is almost ready with the session agenda but is not yet included.  

## Logo Contest

- Dario should send a proper message to the general HSF list initiating the voting period. 

## AOB

- Nothing

