---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #73, November 17, 2016"
layout: meetings
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #73, November 17, 2016

#### *Present*: Michel Jouvin, Pere Mato, Frank-Dieter Gaede, David Lange, Elizabeth Sexton-Kennedyâ€™s, John Harvey

## News, general matters

-   Frank reports that he will make a presentation about HSF at the [*Physics at the Terascale Annual Meeting*](https://indico.desy.de/conferenceOtherViews.py?view=standard&confId=15730) at DESY

-   A page should be setup with the recent material for talks. (Pere)

## Current Topics

### GeantV

-   TN for the report of the community meeting on GeantV. Any objections? No objection.

-   No newsletter yet.

### CWP

-   A couple of actions still pending from last week:

    -   Pete will send a mail tomorrow morning with the process to start getting at the charges

    -   Details and logistics for the January workshop will come soon

-   Liz will followup with Pete

### Licensing

-   In the process of choosing a date for the meeting at the beginning of 2017.

## Activity updates

### Packaging

-   Jim Pivarski was asking why conda was not considered in the first round of the document. An addendum was prepared after the Paris meeting.

## AOB

-   Next week meeting cancelled because of Thanksgiving.


