---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #62, July 7, 2016"
layout: meetings
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #62, July 7, 2016

### Contents
{:.no_toc}

* auto-gen TOC:
{:toc}


#### *Present*: Benedikt Hegner, Pere Mato, Guilherme Amadio, Patricia Mendez, Andrea Valassi, John Harvey, Dario Menasce, Frank-Dieter Gaede, Michel Jouvin, mreis, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, Markus Schulz

## News, general matters

-   Not yet done: a Doodle to find a better slot for the weekly meeting (but current slot seems no so bad… good attendance in the last weeks).

## Current Topics.

### CWP

-   Charge available at HSF web. [*http://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/assets/CWP-Charge-HSF.pdf*]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/CWP-Charge-HSF.pdf)

    -   Need perhaps some clarification since it looks very WLCG specific. We need to add in the CWP page an explanation and situating this charge in the overall context.

    -   Benedikt: the charge of WLCG is one input but other inputs

    -   We need to feedback comments to make it more clear

-   Created a page for the CWP activity in [*http://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/workinggroups/2016/07/06/communitywhitepaper.html*](http://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/workinggroups/2016/07/06/communitywhitepaper.html) under ‘activities’.

-   Calendar in HSF website done and is public for reading ([*https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=e4v33e1a1drbncdle1n03ahpcs%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Europe/Amsterdam*](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=e4v33e1a1drbncdle1n03ahpcs%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Europe/Amsterdam)).

    -   We need to have a clear instructions on how to update it: e.g. send emails to the startup team.

    -   Agreement that this calendar must be inclusive: just events must be informative enough for others to judge if they are concerned by the conflict.

<!-- -->

-   We need to fix the dates or the pre-meetings in September.

-   Prepare/announce the event the Sunday before CHEP.

## Activity updates

### Training

-   Dario: decided to change the strategy and follow the suggestion mentioned last week (possibility of portal-like pages to external training materials). Tried to setup a schema for collecting the links. Use the categories from the knowledge base and create a skeleton. In same cases, it could be difficult to map the reality to a series of categories. The goal is to facilitate the user to find the material he/she is interested.

-   Dario will circulate an initial proposal to the startup team. Michel says a search capability is essential too.

### Packaging

-   There was a Spack meeting last Thursday. The binary package functionality was intended to be merged upstream this week. RPMs for Spack being prepared.

-   The default policy between what you build and what you find in the system is not yet clear. But it should possible for the maintainer of an install area to decide what packages are acceptable from the ones in the system and what must be rebuilt (picking from the system means a less dependable dependency, also taking the dependencies from Spack ensures a greater testing by the community).

-   Pere: what are the next steps? LHCb wants to try it out and have more people
  in the community to play with it.

-   Suggestion from Guilherme: consider [Gentoo Linux Portage package manager](https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Portage)
    as a means of software distribution. Packages already available can be seen on Gentoo
    [package index](https://packages.gentoo.org/categories){:data-proofer-ignore=""}.
    Benedikt encourages Guilherme to discuss it in the packaging WG: may be the topic for one of the next WG meetings.

### Licencing

-   Forwarded the question to the Forum about copyrights to the Giacomo Tenaglia and Tim Smith.

### Common Tracking Forum

-   Another meeting on seeding and tracking is being prepared. The next opportunity is end of August or September.

-   ACTS (A Common Tracking Software by Andrea Salzburger, derived from ATLAS tracking but intended to be a generic tracking framework that may ultimately be used by ATLAS) should be added to the list of HSF projects but some licensing issues must be cleared first.

## AOB

-   Benedikt pointed out that no newsletter has been released for a long time. The next topic should be the CWP and yo to use it to announce the meetings and process.
