---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #64, July 21, 2016"
layout: meetings
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #64, July 21, 2016

### Contents
{:.no_toc}

* auto-gen TOC:
{:toc}

#### *Present*:

#### Torre Wenaus, Pere Mato, Benedikt Hegner, Andrea Valassi, Michel Jouvin, Patricia Mendez, Lorenzo, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, Jim Pivarski

## News, general matters

Michel - discussion at IN2P3, role of HSF, roadmap process. They are very supportive. Discussing how to get more involvement from French people. Direction is good.

## Current Topics.

### GeantV review

-   [*Draft charge*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/104EPbRpOC6cqCtDF4tzHLE0KSrvlL2Ic_xexiDfYtO0/edit?usp=sharing)

-   OK to distribute to open forum.

-   Would be good to have a reviewer from the future experiments community; linear collider, FCC, Belle II (recall G4 has much Japanese involvement), etc. Perhaps Frank has a suggestion. At the least, have them participate. Benedikt and Pere will ask.

-   So far one (positive) response from the 8 invites sent. [now two.]

-   Search for a room has begun.

### CWP

-   CWP approved in WLCG MB, to no discussion

    -   [*https://indico.cern.ch/event/467575/contributions/1145549/attachments/1311108/1961899/CWP-Charge-HSF.pdf*](https://indico.cern.ch/event/467575/contributions/1145549/attachments/1311108/1961899/CWP-Charge-HSF.pdf)

-   We need to fix the dates for the pre-meetings in September:

    -   Propose to find two days in the Wed 21-Fri 23 window, ~4-7pm

    -   Gaudi workshop is on the same dates, 21-23. Probably can accommodate stopping at 4pm (more difficult the first day). **Thu-Fri looks the best option: final approval by experiments, WLCG…**

Kickoff meeting: finding a date challenging

-   If necessary, if dates conflict with an established community meeting, e.g. linear collider, or ALICE, maybe cover that community with dedicated attention in the pre-CHEP meeting and/or Sep?

<!-- -->

-   **Propose: Dec 12-16.** Least problematic. Not compatible with holding it in Amsterdam but we can hold this one somewhere else if needed.

#### Pre-CHEP Sunday meeting

-   **Agreed we should send a brief announcement *now* as people are making their travel plans. Michel will send one. [done]**

-   Aim to write a more extended announcement next week (in the context of a newsletter) when we hopefully have dates for Sep meeting and kickoff meeting.

## Activity updates

### Training

-   Dario working to add categories to the SW&C KB: collected pointers to different categories of materials. Planned categories are either topical or by type of materials. Will contact Torre soon to see to implement this in KB…

-   Helmholz school funding has not been extended for their C++ (and other) schools. Perhaps HSF can help. Material should be public domain compatible (much of it is from Benedikt). Frank should know the details about the school of status and what would be worth to “hand over” to HSF (would be a pity to lose the knowledge).

    -   Benedikt will talk to them

-   Avoid to duplicate general programming schools but focus on schools/materials focused on scientific programming.

-   Importance of tutorials with a reference environment easy to fire up.

-   Sample material for C++: [*https://github.com/isocpp/CppCoreGuidelines*](https://github.com/isocpp/CppCoreGuidelines)

### Packaging

-   No meeting of the WG planned during the summer

-   Still participating in Spack developers meeting

-   It’s suggested that we post the Spack google group and an example digest to the HSF packaging group mailing list. Liz volunteers to do this.

-   Proposal to discuss Portage by Guilherme: no date settled yet, to be done after the summer break. Guilherme will send an email description to the WG about Portage.

### Licencing

-   Still waiting to hear from the people in charge in CERN/IT…

### StackExchange

-   Andrea doing a presentation on Monday at the SFT group meeting: [*https://indico.cern.ch/event/535891/*](https://indico.cern.ch/event/535891/) (remote participation will be possible exceptionally)

-   Open to anybody interested.

### Common Tracking Forum

-   No news

## AOB

-   Meeting next week. Probably in August we take a few weeks off.


