---
title: "Startup Team Minutes #41"
layout: meetings
---

# HEP Software Foundation Startup Team Meeting notes Jan 14 2016

[Indico Agenda](https://indico.cern.ch/event/483867/)

Present: Amber, Andrew, Benedikt, Dario, Pere

Apologies from: Torre, Michel

## News and general updates 
- The HSF startup team has a time slot in the WLCG workshop in Lisbon to talk about common software activities. 
  To be decided who of the team will prepare and give the presentation.
- Amber reports about new SW efforts in the nuclear physics community and the new electron-ion-collider. 
  There will be a workshop March 16th-18th. Could be useful if a startup team member is present there. 

## Technical Notes
- New technical note on results of WLCG MJF Task Force almost finished.
- No further feedback to the license TN draft. Considered finished now.

## Training
- Dario summarizes the problems of missing feedback to his emails and questions. Still no material uploaded.
- Benedikt proposes to push more within the CERN group for uploading material.

## Packaging
- Next meeting on Feb 10. about the HPC packaging tool Spack [indico agenda](https://indico.cern.ch/event/484006/). 

## Logo Contest
- No feedback whatsoever. Will extend the deadline.

## Newsletter
- Benedikt proposes the next newsletter to cover WikiToLearn. Dario prefers having real material posted there first. 

## Software knowledge base and communication
- Amber made the nuclear physics community aware of the knowledge base and they started filling it.

## Next HSF workshop
- Organizing the next HSF workshop becomes urgent now. Pere reminds of the idea of Michel to host it in Paris.

## AOB
- Benedikt reported on the collaboration for the conditions database. The second meeting will take place the 21st of January.
- Pere reports about the change of management in CERN. Will retry to get official manpower working on HSF.
- Andrew proposes another doodle to find a better meeting slot.
