---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #67, September 1, 2016"
layout: meetings
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #67, September 1, 2016

#### *Present*: Ben Morgan, Maria Girone, Pere Mato, Michel Jouvin, Daniel Elvira, Peter Elmer, Jim Pivarski, Patricia Mendez, Elizabeth Sexton-Kennedy, David Lange 

## News, general matters

-   Pere has been officially invited to the ECFA HL-LHC meeting in Evian.

## Current Topics.

### GeantV review

-   Daniel tries to summarize the situation. Before last week there was a long discussion to Fermilab management. To come with a proposal of having a review without calling it a review. The Fermilab management agrees with the minutes of last week. However, they could not convince Lali so far but they are still trying... Things are not yet resolved.

-   The trips to CERN in October has been approved but the line management has to take a decision before buying the tickets.

-   Need to wait the outcome of the new discussions of Panagiotis with Lali (should happen soon). The most likely outcome if the dispute is not resolved is that they cannot attend (even remotely) the review.

### CWP

-   Pete reports on the progress in choosing the dates on the meeting in January. No major objection for the week of Monday 23 to Thursday 26 January.

-   Pete estimates a participation of about 150 people. The arrangements are being made for provisioning of meeting rooms (parallel sessions should be possible). We can wait after the organization meeting to have a better understanding on the number of different working groups.

-   Pete will confirm the dates to UCSD and add them to the community calendar.

-   Pere still has to contact the computing coordinators to organize the September meeting.

## Activity updates

### Packaging

-   No e-mails on packaging meetings recently because has not been any.

-   Ben suggests to restart these meetings before/after CHEP. Liz thinks it would be good to restart.

-   A Technical Student starting today at CERN in the SFT group that port of his work will be to evaluate Spack for the LCG software stack.

## AOB

-   Nothing to be added.


