---
title: "Startup Team Minutes #46"
layout: meetings
---

# HSF Startup Team Meeting Feb 18 2016

[Indico Agenda](https://indico.cern.ch/event/501476/)

Present: Andrea, Benedikt, Pere, Thomas Kuhr, Dario, Andrew, Ben Morgan, John Harvey, Liz, David Lange 


## News
- LHCC has been reviewing the WLCG project, which also includes the Applications Area. 
  A presentation on software aspects has been requested for the next LHCC referee's meeting. 
  It would be a nice occasion to the get an update of the HSF activities and to get feedback from reviewers.

## May HSF workshop progress

- Michel is progressing in the preparation on the workshop in particular the financial aspects. More news next week.
- Andrea has contacted people from Depsy (http://depsy.org) to invite them to the workshop. No reply yet.

## Round table for activities updates

### TNs
- Licencing: Michel still needs to finalize it. Andrea sent a few patches to the note as a 'pull request'. People
  can comment and Michel should merge the pull request. Changes to the PDF were included by mistake. 
  It is understood that the main editor of each NT is the one that should produce a new PDF file.
- Andrew reminded us that only thing we require for a TN is that the final version of the PDF. 
  Changes to the source as text (as is the case for Latex) is clearly very much appreciated. Very important to
  to cleraly identify a main editor for each TN to ensure that the changes are applied.
- LCG note on Machine/Job features: There is presentation at the LCG operation meeting in 45 minutes.
- There is a distinction between TN produced internally and externally. 
  In some case we will not have the sources in GIT during the consultation period. For our own HSF documents we should use Latex.
  
### Packaging
- Benedikt reported on the progress in the packaging document. It is now including the newly presented Spack system. 
- Few people are starting playing with it. The premilinary conclcusion is that identified missing features can be easyly solved.
  Potential for a nice coding sprint at the workshop.
- Pere mentioned that the packaging Web page is not updated with the presentation.

### Training
- Dario: Nothing new since last week. He reminded that previous week Riccardo made an exercise to translate LHCb training material.
  http://en.wikitolearn.org/First_steps_in_LHCb. Evaluating whether it is possible to establish an agreement with LHCb on the 
maintenance. On going discussion with Marco Cattaneo. 
- Collaboration with [Software Carpentry](http://software-carpentry.org). 
  Study the possibility to share the organization of the tutorials workshop. Dario will contact them next week. 
  Invite somebody from them to the HSF workshop. 
- WikiToLearn [sprint at CERN](http://meta.wikitolearn.org/Sprints/CERN_2016) 7-13 March. Got an invitation for a general presentation. 
  
 

### Logo contest 
- Pere sent some comments to the Dario's mail concerning the grouping of logos into families. Dario will work on this.
- We need to send the mail asap. The voting web site can wait.

### Knowledge base
- Next week Torre will probably make an update.

## AOB
- Reminding the Connecting the [dots workshop](https://indico.hephy.oeaw.ac.at/event/86/){:data-proofer-ignore=""} next week. 
  Contributions form various parts are expected. People should be able to connect remotely. Send a reminder mail.



