---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #71, November 3, 2016"
layout: meetings
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #71, November 3, 2016

#### *Present*: Dario Menasce, Guilherme Amadio, John Harvey, Pere Mato, Patricia Mendez, Torre Wenaus, Graeme Stewart, Daniel Elvira, Oxana Smirnova, Ben Morgan, Kaushik De, David Lange, Andrea Valassi, Michel Jouvin, Pete Elmer, Jim Pivarski, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, 

## News, general matters

-   Requested presentation of status of HSF at the WLCG OB.

-   Michel updated on the S&C journal: Editors-in chief are now nominated: Markus Elsing (CERN, ATLAS), Gunter Quast (KIT, CMS), Volker Beckman (FR/IN2P3, astrophysics). Beginning to recruit for the Editorial Board: Pere and Michel contacted (and accepted), volunteers welcome. Need to start looking for some possible initial articles too (call for articles planned by the end of the year): goal is to review them during winter and publish them next Spring.

## Current Topics

### “HEP software community meeting on GeantV R&D”

-   Torre: The meeting went very well. The information was communicated very nicely. There was a closeout session communication the findings and recommendations to the GeantV project. Currently polishing and finalizing the report. The goal is to finish by tomorrow, otherwise soon after. The report will be open to everybody. Suggested to have another of these community meetings in 18 months.

-   Pere: the meeting and the process itself was very positive and useful.

-   John: these kind of ‘reviews’ could be organized for other topics.

-   Dario: can other people using GeantV give feedback? Obviously yes, as any other open source project. Daniel: the already produced libraries will become available.

-   Graeme: the purpose of these ‘reviews’ are more for strategic views, and not just to collect immediate user feedback.

-   Michel: we should think about how to publicize what has been done and encourage other products to do similar things.

-   Something should be posted on the web site. A general mail when the report is done. A Newsletter issue will be adequate and could be done at the same time.

### CWP

-   Pete made a summary of progress:

    -   Top level page in the Web since CHEP: [*http://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/cwp.html*](http://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/cwp.html). A lot of information added to the top level Google pointed to by this page too.

    -   Cycled over all the working groups to see if there has been some progress.

    -   How to jump from the topical WG to the high level vision? Would like to ask people to write some short vision statements (by an email sent to everybody in the CWP list). An initial vision statement to start the discussion. Liz thinks it is important to also gather input from the LHC experiments, not only the people involved in them.

-   Kickoff Workshop in SDSC

    -   Need to start working on the agenda structure for the kickoff meeting. The idea is to be organized around WGs with // meetings of the WGs in addition to plenaries.

    -   Pete will prepare the logistic page in the coming week (registration, venue information, accommodation, etc.)

## Activity updates

### Packaging

-   There was meeting yesterday of the packaging WG: [*https://indico.cern.ch/event/581338/*](https://indico.cern.ch/event/581338/) with an update on Spark and the presentation of a new tool Portage. Very interesting discussion, working on a new revision of the packaging document (TN).

-   At the GeantV review, was said that HSF should propose a packaging standard for the community, at least for new projects. It would be good if GeantV could review the proposed project template and feedback how it can fulfill the needs of GeantV, in particular to make easy to use subsets of GeantV in other packages.

-   Handling several hardware architectures in software distributions at the same time is probably a topic to be studied by the packaging WG.

### Licensing

-   Michel had a discussion with Tim Smith. There is the oral commitment that the contact person (Giacomo Tenaglia) will be more active discussing this issues with HSF.

### Training

-   No time and no progress.

### Reconstruction WG

-   The idea is to resurrect the tracking working group and make it the WG of the CWP for tracking discussions.

### Q&A System

-   ATLAS expressed some interest in having one community system, recognizing that StackExchange would not work

## AOB

-   Pere proposed the idea of making HSF a GSOC ([*Google Summer of Code*](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com)) organization ‘umbrella’. CERN has been a GSOC organization mentoring projects for the last 6 years. The idea is to open it and make it more global by replacing CERN with HSF. In this way, it will be open to projects for the whole HEP community and good publicity for HSF.


