---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #106, August 31, 2017"
layout: meetings
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #106, August 30, 2017

#### *Present*: Dario Menasce, Pere Mato, Benedikt Hegner, Daniel Elvira, Michel Jouvin, Andrea Valassi, David Lange, John Harvey


## News, general matters

  * Graeme will present HSF CWP status to the Scientific Computing Forum (SCF) on 27.10. Pere and Pete will be present as well for the discussion.
  * Next LHCC in two weeks from now. Will possibly contain CWP part in summary.
  * Next WLCG Overview Board is scheduled on Oct. 27 and may also ask a CWP status… To be confirmed with Ian Bird.


## CWP

-   #### Simulation

	- Essentially finished. Getting feedback on Fluka part. Other comments have been incorporated.
    - Resource estimates need to be updated and could move to a general CWP introduction.
    - Studies to understand difference in simulation times between ATLAS and CMS have been done and will be incorporated into the document.

-   #### MachineLearning

    -   no news

-   #### Software Development

    -   Close to final

-   #### Software Trigger and Event Reconstruction

    -   Draft of executive summary and document being circulated
    -   Being proof-read by volunteers

-   #### Data Access, Organisation and Management

    -   No news.

-   #### Data and Software Preservation

    -   No news.

-   #### Data Analysis and Interpretation

    -   No news.

-   #### Workflow and Resource Management

    -   No news.

-   #### Visualization

    -   No news.

-   #### Event/Data Processing Frameworks

    -   No news.

-   #### Careers, Staffing and Training

    -   Some comments to be incorporated in document still.

-   #### Computing Model

    -   two versions of the document have been prepared (with Ian acting as main editor). The short 5-page version that represents the executive summary for the CWP has already been circulated extensively between the people who contributed to it. The longer 50-page standalone document is still being actively reviewed and worked on. 


-   Conditions Access

    -   No news.

-   #### Next Steps

    -   Get feedback from Pete about the organization of the editorial team. Several WG already produced an executive summary that could be used as input for the global document.

## Activity updates

### Licensing
Follow-up the discussion about ATLAS licensing at the next meeting if Graeme is there.

### Training
Recent use of WikiToLearn by the GridKa computing school: should contact them to get feedback on the platform

## AOB
 - Color scheme of website not colorblind friendly (in particular difficult to identify links)
 - WLCG workshop follow-up needed, in particular on new dates foreseen. 
 - Contact experiments, WLCG and others to get the community calendar filled asap
 - Presentation by Liz during ACAT to be added to the HSF websites