---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #81, February 16, 2017"
layout: default
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #81, February 16, 2017

#### *Present*: Liz Sexton-Kennedy, Pere Mato, Jeff Templon, John Harvey, Ian Bird, Dario Menasce, Torre Wenaus, Ben Morgan, Peter Elmer, David Lange, 

## News, general matters

-   Liz - Licensing meeting next week is in indico now. Only holds 10 people, could do with a bigger one if possible. It has vidyo.

-   John - Witek sent a mail that there’ll be another LPCC simu workshop. The same week as the CWP workshop on Mon/Tue. Overlap is minimal if CWP starts Tue/Wed.

## Current Topics

### CWP

-   Peter rearranged web pages, sent a note out yesterday.

-   John - simu WG is organizing a meeting at the end of the month. Address different physics scenarios in simulation.

-   Ian - started to put together a computing model/facilities googledoc and google group. Doc has a list of high level areas where work needs to be done. The document is a whiteboard for people to put ideas and concerns in, please feel free.

-   Peter - be sure everything is linked from the summary page so people see everything in one place

### HEP analysis ecosystem workshop

-   [*Workshop planning googledoc*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aAGCj_y9in_I-c9yYJ-XX3Qurf0PXH4tFoYmvuCY5tk/edit?usp=sharing)

-   [*Indico page*](https://indico.cern.ch/event/613842/)

-   Dates fixed last week, May 22-24.

-   Location possibilities: Italy (won’t fly), Amsterdam, Bristol (served by EasyJet from GVA and it’s an EasyJet hub, can also use Birmingham nearby), … and of course CERN.

-   re Amsterdam: looking at possible venues. Have NIKHEF logistics support. Just had a Big Data for Big Science meeting, this would fit the theme. Easy to get to from everywhere. Looking at central venues.

    -   Cost is an issue, what will the reg fee be? How much do hotels cost? Tickets expensive because of holidays?

    -   Flight is only 35 CHF each way right now.

-   have pre-reserved conference room at CERN just in case.

-   30 on the doodle so far.

-   have a serious closeout

    -   session block by session block, have rapporteur/note takers report out not just summary but conclusions and actions.

### Scientific computing forum

-   Dario: relation to HSF? Unknown. Clearly very different. Scientific computing forum is highly top-down, different set of people. It is a channel to funding agencies. HSF is bottom up.

## Activity updates

-   Licensing News

    -   Reported last week: ATLAS has set the copyright of all their collaboration software to “CERN on behalf of the ATLAS collaboration”.

        -   Actually it is “CERN for the benefit of the ATLAS collaboration”

-   Will plan a packaging meeting soon

## AOB

-   **We agreed to move the meeting a half hour later to 3:30 CERN time, and aim to keep it to a disciplined 30 minute length. Arrive on time :-) Effective next week.**


