---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #109, September 21, 2017"
layout: meetings
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #109, September 21, 2017

#### *Present*: Ian Bird, Michel Jouvin, Dario Menasce, Pere Mato, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, John Harvey, Benedikt Hegner, Marko Petric, Graeme Stewart, Andre Sailer, Daniel Elvira, David Lange, Mike Sokoloff, Pete Elmer, David Lange, Marco Brako, Thomas Kuhr


## CWP

-   #### General matters and Editorial Board
    - See [slides](https://indico.cern.ch/event/667285/contributions/2727738/attachments/1526808/2389640/CWP_Editorial_Board_2017-09-21.pdf)
    - Editorial Board: trying to address the LHCC comments about the need to involve more people outside the LHC community (despite the fact that LHCC is only concerned with the LHC) and too much CERN+US dominated. Contacts established with Belle II, LC community, IF, ... 
    - The Reconstruction and Simulation summaries are very good, so we recommend the structure **Challenges + Current Approaches + Roadmap**
    - It is better to organise R&D actions on 2 time scales: 2y and 5y (rather than 1/3/5). Doesnâ€™t mean that all actions will be delayed by 2 years of course.
    - Effort description: minimum granularity is whether it is an additional effort to what we are doing or just re-assigning existing effort (e.g., easy things with modest impact should be done)
    - Synthesis document
        - A small team set up to prepare a first draft that will be discussed by EB and community
        - Keep sections 6 and 7 separate for now (see slide 5)
        - An executive summary of the synthesis document is TBD

-   #### Simulation
    - Got feedback from ATLAS, focused on clarifying the strategy; addressed by Daniel, ATLAS happy with the proposal.
    - Document now almost finalized: no major change expected

-   #### MachineLearning
    - No news, Grame will follow up.

-   #### Software Development
    - Updated document in line with some comments received. Revamping the roadmap section. Should finish tomorrow.

-   #### Software Trigger and Event Reconstruction
    - No updates, ATLAS were asked to give feedback.

-   #### Data Access, Organisation and Management
    - Meeting scheduled right after our weekly meeting today, more after it.
    - *Post meeting update*: 
        - Contents more or less ok but some work in progress to better define the challenges (currently dispersed in the text) and write a proper R&D Roadmap (currently an unordered, unprioritized bullet list)
        - Progress expected at next WG meeting (just after the HSF weekly meeting)

-   #### Data and Software Preservation
    - Some text translated from bullets to prose, but still a lot to do; Graeme will follow up with Mike.

-   #### Data Analysis and Interpretation
    - Oli still away until tomorrow.

-   #### Workflow and Resource Management
    - Kaushik promised to try and start to reconvene the group properly next week. It will take some time to actually get an archive worthy document together, however they hope to have coherent input for the Ed Board in the first two weeks of October.

-   #### Visualization
    - Ric is now working with the group on finishing this off.

-   #### Event/Data Processing Frameworks
    - Giulio commented from ALICE. Now incorporating this feedback. Summary still to be done - outline suggested will help. Goals have been identified.

-   #### Careers, Staffing and Training
    - Slow progress since last meeting, but not far from a finalized version. Need feedback from others in the group.
    - Must review the document in light of the suggestions of Graeme and Peter (check uniformity with other chapters regarding overall schema and adherence to the Charge)

-   #### Facilities, and Distributed Computing
    - Ian dealing with comments now. Executive summary outline available. Roadmap for R&D activities needs to be done/finalized: Ian discussing with various people about it.
    - Reviewed by Belle II (Thomas)

-   #### Conditions Access
    - Document ready for review.

-   #### Generators
    - Graeme spoke to Taylor who is continuing to gather input. Torben Ferber said he could provide some input from Belle II.

## Activity updates

### Licensing
- Presentation by Graeme and discussion within ATLAS during their workshop. No strong opinion on which license to use. Important is to understand the boundary conditions
    - Policy of US national labs
    - Requirements of industrial partners
- Discussion with CMS about the same topics
- Mixed licensing still looks like a good option in case openlab-cooperation requires us to provide non-GPL access to code
- Belle II: licensing TF should meet Oct. 12, at the occasion of the Belle II Collaboration Week

### Training
- Dario asked Manuel Giffels (contact person for the GridKa School of Computing) to provide feedback on their experience with WikiToLearn (for eventual future improvements). Waiting for answers.
- Also contacted Mauro Morandin (head of the Bertinoro School) and proposed him to try the same exercise. He is evaluating the thing with collaborators. Waiting for additional feedback.
- Suggested that ROOT also look at this for any updated training materials.

### Packaging
- Coming out of the CWP it would be good to reinvigorate the packaging group to re-evaluate packaging tool options and encourage some more prototyping.
    
## AOB
- The HTML proofer is having trouble on some URLs. Graeme has been taking a look and has solved some of the problems (from old OpenSSL version or lack of certificates), but some other unexplained failures remain (see [PR#160](https://github.com/HSF/hsf.github.io/pull/160)).
