---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #105, August 24, 2017"
layout: meetings
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #105, August 24, 2017

#### *Present*: John Harvey, Pere Mato, Graeme Stewart, Patricia Mendez

## News, general matters

-   No news

## CWP

-   #### Simulation

	- Documents circulating.

-   #### MachineLearning

    -   Have distributed their [draft paper](https://hypothes.is/groups/j9RW8j3i/hep-software-foundation) to the wider community.

-   #### Software Development

    -   Document now complete. Further feedback welcome. (Document was moved into 
    [Google Docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EtvAda2bZw5AHjhcqK-2T7bDlvznypZIWL-Bw3X6BWQ/edit?usp=sharing) 
    for some technical reasons: ; Dropbox version is archived to preserve discussion points).

-   #### Software Trigger and Event Reconstruction

    -   No news.

-   #### Data Access, Organisation and Management

    -   No news.

-   #### Data and Software Preservation

    -   No news.

-   #### Data Analysis and Interpretation

    -   No news.

-   #### Workflow and Resource Management

    -   No news.

-   #### Visualization

    -   No news.

-   #### Event/Data Processing Frameworks

    -   No news.

-   #### Careers, Staffing and Training

    -   No news.

-   #### Computing Model

    -   No news.

-   Conditions Access

    -   No news.

-   #### Next Steps

    -   Ask Pete about progress for Editorial Team.

## Activity updates

- Licensing
    - ATLAS have been looking at what practical steps are needed to open source Athena (we used the [fossology scanner](https://www.fossology.org/) to help us here). We found
        - Most generator software we checked (plus FastJet) is exclusively GPLv2 (no “later version” clause), 
        which would force us to use GPLv2 for Athena
        - We make extensive use of Xerces, which has an Apache 2 license, which is **not** compatible with GPLv2
        - We have no clear way forward to find an open source license that’s compatible with all the software we use now
        
We need to organise another meeting with the generator/theory community about using
GPLv3 (perhaps through the optional "any later version" clause).


## AOB

- Proposed WLCG/HSF workshop week is converging on w/b March 26th. This has no significant clashes for LHC experiments or for OSG. Note that Friday 30 March is the Good Friday holiday, so the proposal would be to close the workshop earlier on Thursday to allow people to travel.
    - If you know of any significant problems with this please say here, or send an email to Graeme


