---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #82, February 23, 2017"
layout: meetings
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #82, February 23, 2017

#### *Present*: Andrea Valassi, Dario Menasce, Guilherme Amadio, Benedikt Hegner, Ian Bird, Pere Mato, Michel Jouvin, Riccardo Bianchi, Daniel Elvira, Patricia Mendez, Giacomo Tenaglia, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, David Lange, Ben Morgan, Fons, Peter Elmer

## News, general matters

-   The HSF position at CERN is now out. The job vacancy notice can be found here, https://jobs.web.cern.ch/job/12259.

<!-- -->

-   [*SW&C Journal*](http://www.springer.com/physics/particle+and+nuclear+physics/journal/41781) is taking shape. It is ready for first papers to be submitted. The first meeting of editorial board will take place on March 15.

-   Dario got an offer to organize a training workshop as part of *IEEE NSS-MIC 2017* (October 21-28). Is HSF interested? Not completely clear what/how we could do. A good opportunity to meet other communities. Dario proposes something targeted at our technical challenges (like validation). Or is the the goal more a workshop about training? Need to look at it in more details (see Dario’s email to startup list).

-   Andrea Valassi invited to a Fluka meeting to discuss StackExchange. About StackExchange, IT investigating the possibility of buying a StackExchange license.

## Current Topics

### CWP

-   No news with respect last meeting. The working group page to collect a summary of progress of all the others WG is being prepared.

-   CMS meeting (particularly on computing models) next Monday open to everybody. Pete will be sending a mail with the details (to HSF mailing list?)

-   Plan to organize a session at Fermilab as a follow-up to San Diego, before the 50th anniversary (as part of the event processing framework workshop).

-   From the visualization WG, the first workshop will be on March 28-30 at CERN (on afternoons to be able to connect remote people from US)

### HEP analysis ecosystem workshop

-   Work is continuing in defining the venue of the event in Amsterdam. Getting offers from various possibilities. Hopefully next week we will have more information.

<!-- -->

-   

## Activity updates

### Licensing

-   Meeting this week (February 2nd) ([*agenda*](https://indico.cern.ch/event/614901/)). Representation from IT, KT, LHC experiments. Notes available but not yet published: it will happen soon.

-   Consensus on a more permissive license should be recommended.

-   Andrea: distinction between libraries and applications is required. GPL (and potentially EUPL) is a problem mainly for libraries…, but this is the main artifacts we develop!

-   EUPL which has been proposed as default by INFN, also has issues for CERN due to court of jurisdiction.

-   Would be good to have INFN actively involved in the discussion group.

-   Andrea V. had a discussion after the meeting with a Fastjet developer (M. Cacciari) about Fastjet GPL licensing: in principle they are open to re-discuss it.

## AOB

-   Next meeting next week some time (3:30pm).


