---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #84, March 9, 2017"
layout: meetings
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #84, March 9, 2017

#### *Present*: Dario Menasce, Benedikt Hegner, John Harvey, Pere Mato, Ric Bianchi, Ben Morgan, Michel Jouvin, Ian Bird, David Lange, Torre Wenaus, Paul Laycock, Daniel Elvira, Peter Elmer

## News, general matters

-   CERN - OpenLab Compute Platforms and Software workshop 27th April 2017 [*https://indico.cern.ch/event/622198/*](https://indico.cern.ch/event/622198/)

-   Proposal of the Software Sustainability Institute to HSF/CERN to join a EU proposal. Seems interesting, needs more discussion.

-   Ongoing Connecting the Dots workshop at LAL. A report next week (asking M. Elsing).

## Current Topics

### CWP

-   Top level information page (with current known planned workshops) is: [*http://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/activities/cwp.html*](http://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/activities/cwp.html)

-   Additional information on the WGs is being maintained (and updated in fits and starts) on: [*http://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/cwp/cwp-working-groups.html*](http://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/cwp/cwp-working-groups.html)

-   Various groups moving forward (software triggers/reco WG meeting today at CTD, planning underway for visualization and IML workshop). Discussing the agenda if the visualization WS.

-   Panel yesterday at OSG All Hands Meeting (OSG AHM) in San Diego discussed possible relationships between OSG going forward and the possible (US) NSF S2I2 Software Institute

-   Meeting planned at FNAL (with FNAL SCD and IF) to discuss CWP on Thursday, 23 March. P.Elmer and M.Neubauer will attend.

-   We should probably imagine a CWP outreach visit to BNL and (at OSG AHM) Jerome Lauret (BNL) suggested that outreach about HSF/CWP to the Nuclear Physics community could be useful. One possibility might be the “Future Trends in Nuclear Physics Computing” workshop on 3-5 May at JLab (Torre is in program committee.). The idea is to get more concrete than previous years and get some engagement.

### HEP analysis ecosystem workshop

-   draft agenda is up [*http://indico.cern.ch/event/613842/timetable/*](http://indico.cern.ch/event/613842/timetable/)

-   NIKHEF contact is currently finalizing quotes for three possible venues in or very near the center of A’dam. All three should be possible at a reasonable meeting fee. Probably by early next week one or the other can be chosen (options have already been taking, decision after a visit to check some details of space.) The quotes are for a single plenary-style room for 3 full days.

-   (Peter): I think we can probably go ahead and announce the workshop as being in A’dam with “Venue TBC” for now, to fill in next week. This will allow people to begin to make plans and get relatively inexpensive flights/hotels.

-   People should probably book accommodation as soon as possible.

-   The DM WG was asking if they can have a session (2 hours?) at the Analysis Ecosystem workshop. It could be in the early afternoon on Wednesday, and the rest used for writing. But we should also be sure to discuss DM issues during the workshop, they are an important issue related to Data Intensive Distributed Analysis.

## Activity updates

-   Packaging: Benedikt contacted by Belle2 who started to evaluate Spack and would like to join the WG.

-   Licensing WG: still need to finalize the summary… Ball in Michel’s hand right now!

-   Ask one of the Connecting The Dots organizer (Markus Elsing?) to give a short report at a next meeting and discuss the future of the Tracking Algorithms Forum started a while ago.

## AOB

-   Torre - Consider occasionally having a focus topic in this meeting with a special talk, extend it exceptionally to 60min… a Connecting the Dots workshop report could be an example...


