---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #97, June 22, 2017"
layout: default
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #97, June 22, 2017

#### *Present*: Patricia Mendez, Benedikt Hegner, Michel Jouvin, Pere Mato, Graeme Stewart, Dario Menasce, John Harvey, Liz Sexton Kennedy, David Lange,

## News, general matters

-   Graeme has a talk to EPS conference on parallelization. He would like to receive some input.

## HEP analysis ecosystem workshop outcomes

-   [*Draft report*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1938v-JKE-trfJeJOzE1eTfztXjz7JecSTxSSHKKwq_A/edit?usp=sharing) - work in progress, not yet there… No time yet to clean it, too much chronological as for now…

## CWP

-   Annecy workshop June 26-30 : [*https://indico.cern.ch/event/613093/overview*](https://indico.cern.ch/event/613093/overview)

-   [*Template*](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1STs_EVW7wmPhMG0qaqmygF6uFUgc07qA-Wm220rtMl8/edit#slide=id.g22da0d6011_0_0) proposed by Mark for the WG presentation during the initial plenary. The template for the Monday plenary session has been validated for the software process.

-   82 people registered.

-   [*GoogleDoc*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ffs-W_vkwitzkn1YfY5pc7TYn-WqU42rZe3JohI7qkM/edit) for organizing the car sharing.

-   Finalization of the CWP: need to define how to produce it. John suggesting that every WG writes an executive summary of what must be taken from the topical CWP (this is what is planned by the simulation WG, 52 pages currently!).

    -   Action: send an email to each WG convener about this idea so that each group can work on it during the workshop

    -   Need to define a template with the main points that should be covered in the executive summary. Probably should concentrate on a list of challenges and proposed (prioritized) actions.

    -   Turn individual/topical white papers produced by WG into HSF Technical Notes

-   Agenda is OK. Need just to identify the chair persons for the different plenary and parallel sessions, specially the cross-cutting sessions.

-   Collect the pointers for all existing documents from the global page of the CWP.

## Activity updates

### Licensing

-   Notes of the meeting were sent to the Fastjet developers. No real feedback yet.

-   Belle II licensing working group will be chaired by Carl Rosenfeld

## AOB

-   Next week no meeting since we will be in Annecy


