---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #78, January 19, 2017"
layout: meetings
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #78, January 19, 2017

#### *Present*: Andrea Valassi, Pere Mato, Ben Morgan, Michel Jouvin, Dario Menasce, Benedikt Hegner, Guilherme Amadio, David Smith, Daniel Elvira, Peter Elmer, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, Riccardo Bianchi, Mark Neubauer, Ilija Vukotic

## News, general matters

-   Google Summer of Code

    -   Google has accepted the transition from the CERN organization to a new umbrella organization under a new name - the HEP Software Foundation (HSF). We will still kept a reference to CERN to facilitate students candidates to find old projects.

    -   Stating to create the ‘ideas’ page (in the HSF web) to propose projects.

    -   The coordinators this year are: Sergei Gleyzer and Enric Tejedor

-   CERN EP-SFT position. In the hands of HR. A meeting is scheduled to finalize it the first week of February.

    -   Can also be mentioned during the opening session in San Diego

## Current Topics

### San Diego workshop

-   [*http://indico.cern.ch/event/570249/*](http://indico.cern.ch/event/570249/) : some adjustments made on the timetable.

    -   Michel received feedback from several European FAs, still waiting an answer from Spain, expected by the end of the week.

    -   Reception planned on Monday: will be added to the agenda

    -   SDSC computing center visit proposed: probably on 2 days (Tuesday and Wednesday)

-   [*Agenda googledoc*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CeJzMH9kKk3db06KTxENjwCRnXiY6DJ0ogwMOiJZ85M/edit)

    -   Plenary talk by Aaron Sauers confirmed on issues with code developed by governmental organizations and licensing issues (title to be finalized)

    -   Computing models: probably mainly a discussion slot. Ian Fisk and Rob Gardner agreed to convene this session.

    -   Panels with industry: review proposed questions in Google Doc, add your suggestions

    -   Parallel sessions: several rooms available of different size, need to match room capacity with expected attendance for each session

    -   Most sessions have conveners except Workflow and Resource Management (somebody from CMS proposed) and Role of ROOT (Liz ready to do it)

    -   CAP (Analysis Preservation) interested to contribute in some way (Lucas, Mike)

    -   Last day: just having a report of each WG could be a bit tedious and not very productive. Pete suggests that we could have a summary slot at the end of the day where some of the parallels already completed can be discussed and may provide input for later WGs with overlap. Would be a pity if we end up with independent, non overlapping discussions. Could be also an “informal” report during lunch or another slot. Pete will try to propose an implementation.

-   [*White paper solicitation*](http://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/cwp/CWPWhitePaperSolicitation.pdf)

-   Pete suggesting to have short presentation of every participant as in [*http://s2i2-hep.org/downloads/s2i2-hep-cs-participants.pdf*](http://s2i2-hep.org/downloads/s2i2-hep-cs-participants.pdf)

### Future HSF events, 2017 plans

-   HEP analysis ecosystem workshop proposal

    -   [*https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aAGCj\_y9in\_I-c9yYJ-XX3Qurf0PXH4tFoYmvuCY5tk/edit?usp=sharing*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aAGCj_y9in_I-c9yYJ-XX3Qurf0PXH4tFoYmvuCY5tk/edit?usp=sharing)

    -   To be discussed at the workshop in San Diego

-   Date/location for CWP workshop circa summer 2017

    -   Convergence?To be discuss at the workshop in San Diego

## Activity updates

### Licensing

-   Meeting date finalized from doodle. It is Tuesday 21st February at 4pm CET.

Reconstruction

-   Slot for REco forum in HSF at the connecting the dots workshop

## AOB

-   
