---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #118, November 30, 2017"
layout: default
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #118, November 30, 2017

### *Present/Contributors*: Dario Menasce, Michel Jouvin, Graeme Stewart, Eduardo Rodrigues, Pere Mato, Guilherme Amadio, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, John Harvey, Frank Gaede, Xiaomei Zhang, Daniel Elvira, David Lange

News, general matters
=====================

-   ### HSF/WLCG Workshop
    -   Preparation of the second email with the straw man agenda
        ongoing, now uploaded as a draft to [indico](https://indico.cern.ch/event/658060/timetable/#all)
        (progress hindered by several key people being CWP ghost
        writers).
    -   The large room is not available on Thursday: may impact our plan
        to have a final plenary session that morning.
	- Intention is to have a second announcement before the end of the year,
	  with registration open if possible.

CWP
===

-   ### General Matters and Editorial Board
    -   Draft 2 released as planned on Nov. 17. All sections present, but
        Physics Generators is in fact a draft 1. Commenting period
        extended to Tuesday morning CET (but no other extension
        planned!).
    -   [Last EB meeting](https://indico.cern.ch/event/682901/) on
        Nov. 21: focused on impact assessment. See the minutes for
        details. Summary of the summary: 
        - adding impact statements was
          felt not appropriate for this document which is not a funding
          proposal. It will be role of the funding proposals (e.g. S2I2)
          and strategic projects (e.g.: WLCG one) to establish the
          priorities out of the roadmap, relevant in the particular
          context.
    -   Draft 2 has been read by many people (exact number difficult to
        say) and commented by several tens. Generally the feedback is
        good/very good. Most comments are minor rewording. Physics
        Generator and ML sections are the one where the largest work
        is needed (see below).
    -   It was found easier to accept the suggestions
        progressively when there were not controversial, *so draft 2
        has been continuously evolving for the better*. It will make the
        final step for the final version easier and gave an
        opportunity to get further comments on the modifications.
    -   Still work to be done on the conclusion to make it sharper, in
        particular regarding the need to reduce the number of
        solutions in the community for a specific problem.
    -   [Signatories](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tBXwlNnQsxxZA3gVS1_KSpa8wRXGyk250EIsJwJ2T34/edit?pli=1#):
        good progress, 130 signatories today (1/4 mentioned a CERN
        affiliation). Difficult to assess the diversity. Will probably
        need to involve the EB to ensure that there is no obvious
        people missing. Torre has not mentioned his role: omission or
        Atlas constraint?
        -   Liz reached out to the IF community.
        -   When do we close the ability to add your name?
            -   Deadline was 13 December for the 1st "final" version, but we
                will be happy to accept signatures after that.
    -   Several presentations about CWP: Andrea Valassi at LHCb
        Computing Workshop, Benedikt at a German meeting, Michel at
        LCG France workshop.

-   ### Simulation
    -   CWP section: final
    -   arXiv: needs a final walkthrough (~1 day), to
        reflect changes made to the CWP. Need to finalise author list.
-   ### Machine Learning
    -   CWP section: comments received, in particular from LHCb, that
        some existing work was not enough mentioned. Meeting this
        afternoon to converge. 
        - We will copy the new text into Draft 2 ASAP.
-   ### Software Development
    -   CWP Section: final
    - arXiv: only references left to do, pending for weeks :-(
-   ### Software Trigger and Event Reconstruction
    -   CWP section: a few comments to process
-   ### Data Organisation, Management and Access
    -   CWP section: still waiting DUNE figures about raw data
        throughput. Liz reported that there is still a lot debate about the data
        rates internally and the physics program, so it just may not
        be possible to give this in time.
-   ### Data and Software Preservation
    -   CWP section: final
-   ### Data Analysis and Interpretation
    -   CWP section: a few comments to process, including on the R&D
        action definitions
-   ### Workflow and Resource Management
    -   Did not make it for the global CWP. Content verified and nothing
        has been found missing (already covered in other sections).
-   ### Visualization
    -   CWP section: final
-   ### Event/Data Processing Frameworks
    -   CWP section: a few minor comments to deal with.
-   ### Careers, Staffing and Training
    -   CWP section: a significant improvement done after release of
        draft 2, based on (very good) comments/suggestions by Dan Katz.
        Already merged in draft 2. Almost final, except a comment
        from K. Pedro saying the "section is totally inadequate" with
        reasons that are in fact covered in the section... Remains a
        difficult section as HSF has no authority to mandate some of
        the required changes: it is not like R&D action that we can
        decide to do or not.
-   ### Facilities and Distributed Computing
    -   CWP section: final
-   ### Conditions Access
    -   CWP section: final
-   ### Generators
    -   CWP section: a lot of comments received, generally good but with
        some important additions/changes. Discussion with experts done
        in a shadow document and finally converged.
        - We will copy the new text into Draft 2 ASAP.
-   ### Security
    -   CWP section: final

-   ### Submission of WG papers to ArXiv
    -   *EB agreed that it is delegated to WG convenors: an ArXiv tag
        defined for each document.
        [Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/14zEcHTzXIcLoWUZ-EvstNgN707tMKFEyvjPnJ9SG6Fs/edit#gid=0)
        created listing the HSF report tags and tracking the
        submission status.*

Activity updates
================

Licensing
---------

-   HepMC: Graeme met with Jorgen and we discussed relicensing under
    LGPL. Jorgen is now consulting with Matt.
-   Belle II Licensing TF met last week: Michel exposed the LHC
    experiment plans to move to GPL/LGPL v3 (including the HepMC
    license change). Belle II may follow the same direction, question
    remains open whether the copyrights can be transferred to a
    limited number of party. Requires more discussions. Would be
    interested by a common meeting with other experiments to share
    problems/approaches regarding SW licensing.
-   LHCb had a discussion last week on (C) (to CERN) and licence (GPLv3).
    Some issues with Dutch institutes having trouble relinquishing
    copyright were raised.

Training
--------

-   Graeme had some follow up discussions with the LHCb and ALICE
    StarterKit teams. He proposed them contributing to the training
    session at the HSF workshop in Naples.

Packaging
---------

-   Group met yesterday:
    [https://indico.cern.ch/event/681894/](https://indico.cern.ch/event/681894/)
    -   Further progress on use cases (almost converged). Good
        presentations from ATLAS on their build, deployment and
        runtime use cases.
-   Next meeting in 2 weeks time, will cover CVMFS + GraphDriver and the
    Portage build of the test stack.

AOB
===

-   GSOC 2018
    -   We believe the process starts at the beginning of the year.
        Starting discussions now to find people to coordinate.

-   PyHEP
    -   Converged on 6 topics. In general 2 presentations each topic + a
        lot of discussion time.

-   ATLAS Documentation Workshop
    -   ATLAS are holding a workshop on documentation at their next S&C
        week (11 Dec).
        -   "The documentation toolset (both narrative and code doc) has
            been growing rapidly in the open source world. We want the
            workshop to help identify promising directions and tools
            to pursue, within the context of preserving adequate
            stability, continuity and preservation of investment in
            the existing documentation."
    -   We reached out to some contacts in Belle II, Linear Collider and
        SuperNemo, but we would still like to hear from anyone one
        else with a good story.
    -   LSST might be interesting to look at (Google "LSST the Docs").

-   Next week is CMS week. Friday plenary where Liz will present the
    CWP.

