---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #86, March 23, 2017"
layout: default
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #86, March 23, 2017

#### *Present*: Torre Wenaus, Michel Jouvin (there were many apologies)

## News, general matters

-   Please apply a reasonably high threshold to what you send to the forum list, it is supposed to be relatively low traffic.

-   Torre will give a ‘HSF and NP’ talk at the Future Trends in Nuclear Physics Computing workshop May 2-5 at Jefferson Lab, discuss how HSF can be useful to NP

    -   [*https://www.jlab.org/conferences/trends2017/index.html*](https://www.jlab.org/conferences/trends2017/index.html)

-   

## Current Topics 

### CWP

-   Top level information page (with current known planned workshops) is: [*http://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/activities/cwp.html*](http://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/activities/cwp.html)

-   Additional information on the WGs is being maintained (and updated in fits and starts) on: [*http://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/cwp/cwp-working-groups.html*](http://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/cwp/cwp-working-groups.html)

-   Riccardo provided an update on visualization workshop plans, appended below

    -   he asks… do you know how to organize a light coffee break here at CERN? I think it would be nice to have it at least on the first day where we will have invited external speakers and we could have a larger number of people

-   From Liz: I did contact IanB as requested, and he told us that he plans to have a chapter outline for the computing model that people can start to look at next week. I’m also involved in the Framework subgroup that volunteered to make a straw man outline. That work is in a similar state.

### HEP analysis ecosystem workshop

-   Draft agenda [*http://indico.cern.ch/event/613842/timetable/*](http://indico.cern.ch/event/613842/timetable/)

-   Agenda outline [*googledoc*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1F2v4W5X216sXALToBTT-jT0fFkaIQhld2cqDnSqdv-I/edit?usp=sharing).

-   From Peter: The Eye Film Institute he registration should appear at the beginning of next week, along with hotel and travel info. (The Nikhef person who would set it up is out this week.)

-   From Liz: I’ve talked to some of the A-ecosystem workshop people that Pere wrote into the google doc but have not sent the emails yet. I need more time in front of a screen… which I hope to get by this weekend.

## Activity updates

-   

## AOB

-   We set an unbreakable record (ok nearly unbreakable) for meeting length, 2 minutes.

-   Meeting next week.

**Visualization workshop update from Riccardo**

First day, the "landscape day":

Confirmed external speakers:

- Dr. Peter Messmer (NVIDIA), on rendering techniques, Virtual Reality - (remotely)

- Kevin Ottens and Sean Harmer (KDAB) on Qt 3D, the OpenGL library for Qt - (remotely)

- Jesus Fernandez (Qt Company) on web-based 3D graphics in Qt - (in person)

The idea here is to see what the industry standards and trends are and what people outside HEP use.

I also contacted Prof Moscariello at the Geology department at University of Geneva, because Geologists work with 3D graphics as well. He was very interested and kindly suggested two names, one at ETH (Zurich) and one at Unil (Lausanne). I contacted the first one but cannot make it. I will try to contact the second one.

Since one of our 3D graphics library was originally developed for Geology and Oil&Gas, I wanted to take a look at what they currently use in those fields. To see what other sciences use.

On the first day we will also have short presentations from HEP experiments and groups:

Atlas, CMS, Alice, LHCb, ROOT, GSI

Moreover, I contacted Miguel Marquina from CERN IT, to ask him to advertise the first day of the workshop - the "landscape" day - on the usual "seminars & presentations" mailing lists. For two reasons: I thought that presentations from NVIDIA and Qt could be of interest to other people as well, and also I thought that input for new ideas and techniques in HEP visualization could also come from IT and Computing people; and opening the "landscape day" of the workshop to a wider audience could foster new collaborations as well.

The second day will be focused on "how we can foster collaboration between HEP actors to develop common software package".

While the third day will be focused on planning the writing of the CWP chapter.

Practical info:

----------------

- The travel of Jesus Fernandez (Qt Company) from Oslo will be funded with Peter's and Mike's funds.
