---
title: "HSF Steering Group Meeting, 13 January 2025"
layout: plain_toc
---

## Attending

Present/Contributing: Graeme Stewart, Benedikt Hegner, Torre Wenaus, Nicole Skidmore, Paul Laycock, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, Eduardo Rodrigues, Mark Neubauer

Apologies: Stefan Roiser, Pere Mato

## News

## Advisory Group Meeting

Paul has agreed to be the AG secretary. We have arranged to have the first meeting on Friday 24 January at 16h.

Graeme (as SG chair) will give the presentation from the HSF, which should be prepared by the SG.

The draft is currently [here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1tN782fwkT4RWdzvIM84FlKwAsVu5jM5tsB7FSDF7uUc/edit?usp=sharing) - at the time of this meeting it's an early draft.

Feedback by Friday - so we can send it to the AG early next week.

- Emphasise training more
- Spell out what GSoC is
- Pose specific questions to the AG?

## Activity Area Coordinators 2025

Status is quite healthy - we have enough candidates to run all of the working groups this year. There is not so much backup for some groups. Only group that was short of nominations was simulation.

Tools and Packaging got very good nominations this year, so it will run.

How PyHEP uses HSF conveners needs discussion. Is it just the workshop organisation teams? Graeme and Eduardo will take that discussion offline.

Once conveners for 2025 are settled we should all discuss again with our relevant activities for their plans.

Are people happy with their responsibility assignments? 

| Activity                             | SG Responsible  | Met?         |
| ------------------------------------ | --------------- | ------------ |
| Data Analysis                        | Eduardo + Mark  |              |
| Detector Simulation                  | Torre + Graeme  |              |
| Physics Generators                   | Liz + Stefan    |              |
| JuliaHEP                             | Pere            |              |
| PyHEP                                | Eduardo         |              |
| Reconstruction and Software Triggers | Michel + Paul   |              |
| Tools and Packaging                  | Liz + 1?        |              |
| Training                             | Graeme + Nicole |              |

## European Strategy Update 2025

Things are in motion - all of the groups had discussions / mini-workshops before the break.

- Training and Careers has a [draft document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MRQU0_w8BlXb1ae8w0LTaMaRSyD8a4YPVZCK0edF5VM/edit?usp=sharing)
- Simulation also have a draft

We need to check status here and push, which Michel and Graeme will do.

## HSF/WLCG Workshop

See slides attached to the agenda from Michel for practical details.

We need to urgently setup an organising team for this event. Suggest ~3 people.

- Nicole
- Eduardo
- Paul

Ideas for focus topics?

- Software Environmental Sustainability
- ...

## Seminar Series and C&AF

Future dates:

- 29 January - There was a future detector plan, unclear if it will be finalised.
- 26 February - 4D Tracking

[Indico](https://indico.cern.ch/category/18810/); Coordinators: ~~Benedikt~~, Michel, ~~Andrea~~, Nicole

We need an additional organiser here, or we merge with C&AF organisation.

There has been a proposal to try to merge the organisation of the SS and the CAF to optimise:

- Keep the C&AF Indico category, but migrate it into the HSF space (at the moment it‚Äôs in the defunct proto-SIDIS space)
- Move the HSF Seminars also into this category, so that there‚Äôs one place to find these events
    - Each event is already badged with Compute & Accelerator Forum or HSF Seminar, so they are distinct
- Merge the organising teams, so we can optimise the organisation

Generally we are keen on the merge of these activities and think this is a long term benefit.

## IRIS-HEP Steering Board

There is an IRIS-HEP SB on 14 January. Graeme has been the HSF rep since the beginning and would like to now step down.

*Not a very onerous task - 3-4 meetings a year, but usually reactive. Some presentations when asked.*

## HSF Affiliated Projects

First review, prmon, is done.

*We are really struggling to find people to do these reviews.* NNPDF asked more than two months ago to be included, but so far we have no review.

How can we motivate greater engagement? Is this too much for us to handle? Should we have some specific responsible people?

- Continue to push and do some more reviews in the SB.

Next month volunteers: Graeme, ...

## AOB

### Benedikt

Benedikt is leaving the field for industry, The meeting very warmly thanked Benedikt for all his contributions to the HSF over many years. He will be missed.

### Coordination Meetings

As ever... [Chairing sign up document](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Z1Z4payCpieOLiVFcC6y9j-KCj71u6xX232LHUgIHfI/edit). Slots are in for 2025.

**Graeme cannot come to the coordination meeting this week, so a chair for this week is urgently needed.**

Eduardo will do this week üôè. Please take a look at the schedule and sign up for 1 or 2 slots in the future.

### Domain

Torre made enquiries with BNL who seem to be willing to take over ownership of the domain. Any news?

- Procedure is established, but this will take a bit of time (there is a prior knowledge on this from <https://www.usatlas.org>).
- Unfortunately the request was refused inside the IT department, despite strong support from the Physics department.
    - Not given up yet.

We might also enquire with IJCLab via Michel.

### Next Meeting

As needed post-AG? Probably at the beginning of February.
