---
title: "HSF Steering Group Meeting, 3 June 2025"
layout: plain_toc
---

## Attending

Present/Contributing: Graeme, Claire, Pere, Liz, Torre, Michel, Caterina, Eduardo

Apologies: Paul

## News

### LHCC News

LHCC referees meeting was today. Eduardo attended as liaison.

Questions/feedback to us:

- Training from the general Scientific Python stack and other relevant groups: how to engage better and bring courses on their libraries to HEP? Worth a discussion with the training conveners.
    - Would be useful to also address in the EVERSE context
- In general, how to improve HEP engagement with Scientific Python? The news from the Scikit-HEP project, which is part of the first domain stacks to integrate their core projects, are very welcomed and good to hear.
- AI/ML is ever more important and ubiquitous, yet the HSF has no activity area around it. Furthermore, most ML is Python after all, and Python is big in the HSF. Is it purely historical or ...? Has the HSF thought of engaging strongly with the IML group or even bring it to the HSF?
    - Scope of IML is LHC; similar question was raised about EUCAIF; these are big groups and not necessarily a good idea to attempt to start any HSF AI/ML activity; we can explore how to work together/support each other, e.g., integration into the frameworks; AI/ML is a *technique* and this is impossible to cover in an HSF activity
- Discussion on SWIFT-HEP raised by LHCC, this will affect some people's funding and community efforts to work together between institutes.

### EPPSU Paper

Still planning to submit this to EPJ C. This will be published as an editorial article (no changes to the content).

## Advisory Group Follow-ups

### Advertising the HSF

There is an action on Paul and Graeme to follow up w.r.t. 

- Advertising the HSF within the collaborations/communities
    - We need to draft a text that we can suggest things (still TODO)

## HSF Funding Opportunities and Collaboration

Ongoing investigations of a more formal MoU and independent status. Unfortunately no progress since the last meeting.

## Project Affiliation

Should we make the criteria more flexible?

Do the bronze/silver/gold levels actually help? At the moment they mainly seem to favour large projects and smaller projects are stuck at bronze, which could be interpreted as a mediocre result.

An update has been informally proposed for now:

> A simple “HSF Affiliated Project” badge, that says the project fulfils the Best Practice guidelines here: https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/projects/guidelines.html and in particular the 9 general guidelines (not the 2 optional ones !).
> There seemed to be support for the idea of having more nuanced badges, for having extra user support etc. - maybe we should just start with “implements best practice”, which should be relatively quick.

We also propose to work with the experiments to compile a list of the software packages that are used.

ACTION: Graeme, Eduardo and Paul to develop this update more concretely.

- EVERSE RSQKit is very interested in bringing project affiliation criteria to the broader community - who else is interested in scheduling a meeting with me + RSQKit representatives?
    - Caterina will arrange and advertise the meeting
- How do we link to ICFA data lifecycle panel? https://icfa-data-best-practices-demo.app.cern.ch/
    - Ask Kati to present this in an HSF Coordination Meeting and start a dialogue

### Presentations to Projects

- Graeme has a [few slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1B8yeyduPlKjM3jZ9OYnPLFVJaOTm84p-jZgQyXKcMo0/edit?usp=sharing) to present the idea to the [ACTS developers](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1491250/) this afternoon

## SG Chair Election

Candidates sought to take over this role from 1 July.

Agreed Procedure:

- Appoint Pere as the returning officer
- Have a 1 week period for nominations (including self-nominations), until Tuesday 10 June
- Have a 1 week period for the actual election/approval of the new chair, from Wednesday 11 June until Tuesday 17 June

Can envisage also two co-chairs. People should indicate their willingness to be full chair or co-chair.

## SG Composition

If you know of someone who is active in community work and shares the HSF's goals consider inviting them to be on the SG.

We will follow up with a few individuals.

## HSF/WLCG Workshop

Additional post-mortem points?

Should we have a particular focus on *Software Sustainability*? It is a popular and very relevant topic, with lots of cross-experiment potential.

- fully agree! Shall we start with a page of links/resources? Same as "green software" (see below, what does "sustainability" mean to us?)
- EVERSE interested in Training for sustainable software, shorter / more focused version wrt the one advertised by Graeme (attendance?)

Would it be useful if the HSF were to solicit a mandate from WLCG for this task? It would need to then be expressed as a concrete time-bound task. WLCG is setting up an *environmental* sustainability forum, we can ask that forum to provide link/mandate/liaison role for HSF.

Action:

- Eduardo and Graeme will have a coffee/tea with WLCG.
- Caterina will have a PR at some point with resources 
- Caterina will get back to Eleonora Parisi (training organiser) to set up a joint webinar with the compute and accelerator forum

## AOB

### Coordination Meetings

As ever... [Chairing sign up document](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Z1Z4payCpieOLiVFcC6y9j-KCj71u6xX232LHUgIHfI/edit).

- Torre is chairing this week, we still need a chair for 19 June

### C&AF and Seminars

Need to progress on properly co-organising these.

### Domain Name

IJClab are going to take over the `hepsoftwarefoundation.org` domain. This is progressing, Michel and Torre will liaise for the transfer.

### Next Meeting

Early July.
