---
title: "HSF Steering Group Meeting, 14 April 2025"
layout: plain_toc
---

## Attending

Present/Contributing: Graeme, Liz, Claire, Torre, Michel, Eduardo, Mark, Nicole

Apologies: Paul, Stefan

## News

## Advisory Group Follow-ups

### Advertising the HSF

There is an action on Paul and Graeme to follow up w.r.t. advertising the HSF within the collaborations/communities

- We need to draft a text that we can suggest things

## HSF Funding Opportunities and Collaboration

Graeme has had some discussions with CERN about ongoing support for the HSF. CERN may be prepared to *share* the cost of a Scientific Associateship position, if other labs and institutes were also prepared to help. To progress on this we'd need to understand who would be prepared to help.

We noted that most support for the HSF is in-kind. e.g., at Fermilab. And team accounts are for quite specific things in many cases. US ATLAS do have a team account for software people that might help. However, both US ATLAS and US CMS both got cuts recently. Maybe CERN could provide support outside of CERN? To be investigated.

No further progress on an HSF collaboration agreement or MoU at the moment.

### HSF Goals

An update to the HSF's goals was put onto the website: <https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/organization/goals.html>. It is linked from the front page banner under "goals and objectives". This is much less tied to the original CWP process, so looks a lot less out of date!
## Project Affiliation

Some progress:

- NNPDF ongoing.
- ACTS expressed interest, we will arrange a presentation of the idea in a future developers meeting
- No further news from DIRAC following our chat in early March. DIRAC team re-contacted today.
- Conditions DB - will be ready in July.

## SG Chair Role

Graeme's mandate ends June 30 this year. We will need to have a new chair or co-chairs after that.

## SG Composition

We have a few people leaving the SG: David, Daniel and Peter - thanks to them for their work over many years. We also have quite a number of people retiring in the next ~year: Pere, Torre and Michel, who all made excellent contributions (N.B. they are not per-se forced off the SG!).

It would be very good to think about new SG members, if you know of someone who is active in community work and shares the HSF's goals.

## European Strategy Update 2025 Summary

The paper, *The Critical Importance of Software for HEP*, was finalised on time 👏.

- Submitted to the EPPSU process: <https://indico.cern.ch/event/1439855/contributions/6461466/>
- Uploaded to Zenodo: <https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.15097159>
- Published on arXiv: <https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2504.01050>

The paper was endorsed by ALICE, ATLAS, Belle II, CMS, DUNE, ePIC, LHCb, MCnet and WLCG! This is a great result.

We have been approached by Christian Carron at Springer, asking if we would consider publishing this in CSBS or in EPJC (Particles and Fields), in the new "Computing, Software and Data Science" section.

Michel and Graeme are in favour of the EPJC option (which will "replace" CSBS). The meeting was supportive of this course of action.

## HSF/WLCG Workshop

As of April 14, ~105 registered people.

- Early-bird ended last Friday so probably most people already registered
- Low tide (~150 in DESY)

Local organization: everything under control, NTR

Parallel sessions are mostly fixed, except for a chase-up in the training sessions; the "placeholder" session should be renamed to BoF. Some plenary speakers have had travel approval issues, but these are all being followed-up. Remote presentations are possible.

SG people who will be there: Michel, Eduardo, Graeme, Liz, Pere, Paul.

## Seminar Series and C&AF

Last seminar on technical debt in scientific SW was very good and well attended (~40 local+remote).

Several topics for the upcoming ones but none worked for April:

- April seminar canceled
- May: AdePT & Celeritas
- June: date clashing with ESPPU workshop but not necessarily a showstopper - actually it is, as there will be a "listen only" Zoom connection for EPPSU and the slot may clash with the computing session.
    - HS3
    - AI-assisted software tools
- September: tentative scheduling of a seminar on the EPPSU and the outcome of the Venice workshop

## AOB

### Coordination Meetings

As ever... [Chairing sign up document](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Z1Z4payCpieOLiVFcC6y9j-KCj71u6xX232LHUgIHfI/edit).

### Domain Name

Thanks to Michel, IJClab are going to look into taking over the `hepsoftwarefoundation.org` domain.

### Next Meeting

Sometime in June. We should anticipate the next SG Chair election at that meeting.
