---
title: "HSF Steering Group Meeting, 2 December 2025"
layout: plain_toc
---

## Attending

Present/Contributing: Eduardo Rodrigues, Johannes Elmsheuser, Claire Antel, Torre Wenaus, Stefan Roiser, Michel Hernandez Villanueva, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, Caterina Doglioni

Apologies: Michel Jouvin, Graeme Stewart

## News

- We will have this week during the coordination meeting a report from this year's GSoC participation. The report will also contain some "historical information" to give a feeling of how the programme has been for us over the past years. Be sure to connect.
- Uptake of the "BiblioHEP" BibTeX repository has been very shy. Will follow-up with the AG in due course since experiments should be able to contribute a lot here.
    - So far only Belle-II contributed.
    - Feel encouraged to ping colleagues around about it and contribute with relevant entries.

### News from external bodies such as IML

- Meeting held recently with the IML conveners.
    - In the end we managed to be 10 connected, which is pretty nice. We touched on the scope of the HSF and IML and also mentioned briefly the EuCAIF.
    - There was consensus that we could and should engage more firmly in the future, and both parties will have that in mind and will be in touch when relevant, e.g. for future IML workshops that could have a training component, for joint seminars, etc.

## Status of the Activity Areas and Conveners for 2026

- Deadline for nominations is Dec. 12th, in close to 2 weeks.
- All present conveners have been approached to understand who is willing to continue for another year.
    - Quite a few colleagues are happy to continue, which is nice!
- Some concerns/misunderstandings about the convener role:
    - Centralised seminar versus total flexibility to conveners to organise as they see fit.
    - Suggestion to set clear expectations about the role.
    - Why is attendance of coordination meetings so often low?
        - [Are we having too many coordination meetings? Reduce frequency, advertise goals in advance?]

## WLCG Management Board community software liaison

Feedback from the November LHCC:

Stefan presented [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1WpCkId9XghSbrsM4l72MQq1jsYAgU7c0OEpNWhikIew/edit?usp=sharing) at the LHCC WLCG referees session.

* One general message passed: HSF can give a voice to medium and small projects and report about their progress/issues also to bodies like the LHCC --> incentive for more projects to join? 

Discussion points: 

* How active are the AAs? Some more, some less, e.g. training very prominent.
* What is the general strategy of the HSF? (steering group). 
* Is there a plan to have a dedicated AI/ML AA in the HSF? Not discussed yet, but horizontal to HSF and good connections to other initiatives IML/ML4EP, EuCAIF, ...
* How can we reach out to more projects to get affiliated? 
* If the affiliated projects requests go through the roof, can we handle this? 
* How relevant is EVERSE to HEP?

Stefan is also liaison on the LHC MC group and discussed about the Affiliation process. Well received.
- Choice of permissive vs non-permissive licenses is not clear in some libraries. The HSF guidelines are clear on what is preferred. To be followed up.

## Advisory Group Follow-ups

- Next (2nd) meeting will take place in early 2026.
- Extension of the AG members: proposal to invite the SHiP Collaboration to be represented in the AG.
    - Proposal accepted. ACTION: Eduardo to send an invitation on behalf of the HSF SG.

## Project Affiliation and Affiliated

- We have proposed to work with the experiments to compile a list of the software packages that are used. Who wants to make this happen?

### Ongoing reviews

- DIRAC
- NoPayloadDB Conditions Database
- Pepper
- MadGraph5_aMC@NLO

ACTION for all: discuss affiliation with relevant project authors.

## HSF representation

- We are regularly asked to present or attend events.
  - See list of presentations at <https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/organization/presentations.html>.
- Eduardo attended part of the [Nov. 2025 ROOT Users workshop](https://cern.ch/root2025) and presented at the Spanish annual meeting [CPAN Days](https://indico.ific.uv.es/event/8035/) during the COMCHA (= Computing Challenges) session.
    - HSF talk very well received.
    - Hope to strengthen collaboration with /participation of Spanish colleagues.

## SG Composition

If you know of someone who is active in community work and shares the HSF's goals consider inviting them to be on the SG.

## AOB

### Connections with other "checklists for software quality"

TLDR: Stefan, CD and Michael Sparks did an exercise of roughly mapping the HSF affiliated project criteria to the ICFA lifecycle panel recommendations and the EVERSE RSQKit tasks. They should all link to each other in some way (how do we do this on our website?).

Full version and insight: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/19PDPASnmldvpH1Wa03ucVrBqH-XkWy6-4lK8NqiHlU0/edit?tab=t.xxhm5tdm9sca#heading=h.6x0zzcpxod1>.

Seminar with Kati Lassila Perini being organised for next year (email thread ongoing, will answer by the end of this week...)

### Coordination Meetings

As ever... [Chairing sign up document](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Z1Z4payCpieOLiVFcC6y9j-KCj71u6xX232LHUgIHfI/edit).

- Every SG member should really be doing 1+ of these in 1 year, which isn't that much after all. Expect a ping at some point if you've been shy ... ;-)

### Next Meeting

In 2026! Date to be determined next year, as we see fit.
Enjoy the end of year and the Christmas break!