---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #162, 28 March, 2019"
layout: meetings
---

# {{page.title}}

*Present/Contributors*: Graeme Stewart, Stefan Roiser, Witek Pokorski,
Andrea Valassi, Eduardo Rodrigues, David Lange, Javier Cervantes, Andrei
Gheata, Paul Laycock, Pere Mato, Gloria Corti

## News, general matters
  - Reminder that
    [<span class="underline">CHEP2019</span>](http://chep2019.org)
    abstract submission opened a few weeks ago - deadline for
    submission is 13 May.

## Google Summer of Code 2019
  - We are in the application phase (until 9 April).
      - Mentors can interact with students at this time.
      - Students are asked to tag their proposals, however, as an
        umbrella organisation, we can only set 10 tags, so the list is
        incomplete. It’s actually ok to leave this blank (have
        enquired to Google to see if this can be changed).
  - Very important to **check that students don’t have any significant
    commitments during the coding time** (\>1 week is a red light -
    don’t consider them).
      - This statement needs to be part of the proposal.
  - Noted that proposals can be very different (e.g. one very
    concrete, another with a lot of fluff).
      - No templates - concise is better (will also be judged by
        Google).
      - Judge and give feedback on what you think is better for your
        project.
  - We still need a few more people to serve on the
    [<span class="underline">Advisory
    Committee</span>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/17ifO0i4O5JsBVKkcx3j75Z_iW2bXFnCbqFB2YirlJQw/edit?usp=sharing).
      - Pere volunteers.
      - Please let us know if you are interested in also
    helping.

### Google Season of Docs
  - [<span class="underline">https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/</span>](https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/).
      - This is a technical writer project.
  - GSoC coordinators asked if we would run this too.
      - We think to start small - 2-5 projects? Still feeling our way
        in this.
      - Mentors would need to invest the time to understand the
        process and how to get the best from it.
      - Our code is very technical - would need to know how to help a
        writer produce useful documentation for users.
  - Get in touch with the coordinators if you are interested.

## HSF/WLCG/OSG Workshop
  - 246 people registered in the end (plus other “walk up”
    registrations).
  - Local organisation was extremely good - thanks to Amber and the
    JLab staff.
      - Vidyo was a bit weak, but we managed.
  - Thanks to everyone for coming and contributing to the meeting.
      - General feedback has been very positive.
      - Notes were good and helpful.
  - Duplication between tracks was an issue and could be improved.
      - Too many things organised late in the day?
  - Having parallel sessions between WLCG and HSF is an issue, at
    least for some people.
      - Would need to be careful with this - higher level overviews?
      - It was better to not have HSF sessions in parallel (cf.
        Naples).
      - We really do need 5 days\! Next time should rethink the
        plenary slots and share more information in advance.
  - We plan to have a proper round up of workshop issues in one of the
    next meetings.
      - Doodled for the best date, 11 April seems favoured.
  - We should do a summary newsletter
      - Graeme to do first draft and circulate it.

## Activity and Working Group Updates

### Detector Simulation
  - Advertised two next simulation topical meetings, 8 May and 12
    June.

### Event Generators
  - We had our first three bi-weekly meetings and we’ll have the
    fourth one today. We are concentrating (and making progress) on
    the ATLAS/CMS accounting comparison. We also had a first
    discussion on sharing generator settings (and possible samples)
    for the specific case of SUSY signal samples.
  - There was a talk about MadGraph on GPU at JLab. We’ll try to
    follow up further.

### Packaging
  - [<span class="underline">Meeting on 27
    March</span>](https://indico.cern.ch/event/802100/) ([minutes]({{ site.baseurl }}/organization/2019/03/27/packaging.html)):
      - Review of JLab meeting.
      - Update from SuperNEMO on building with Spack.
      - Discussed issues with ROOT recipe in Spack.
  - Next meeting 24 April.

## CWP

#### Roadmap
  - The Roadmap has now been published in Computing and Software for
    Big
        Science:
      - [<span class="underline">https://doi.org/10.1007/s41781-018-0018-8</span>](https://doi.org/10.1007/s41781-018-0018-8)
  - Many thanks to all of those who contributed to the process and
    this very healthy final outcome.
  - See
    [<span class="underline">https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/organization/cwp.html</span>](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/organization/cwp.html)
    for links and citation advice.
  - We should send a message to the CWP lists.

## AOB
  - [<span class="underline">OpenLab nVidia
    workshop</span>](https://indico.cern.ch/event/803015/) happened on
    Monday:
      - Nice introduction to the ecosystem and boxes they are
        building.
      - CUDA and ML topics were introduced.
      - Idea is to hold follow-up workshops in the future.
  - As we decided that as the full JLab follow-up will be 11 April,
    next week’s meeting (4 April) is cancelled, unless anything urgent
    comes up.
