---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #161, 7 March, 2019"
layout: meetings
---

# {{page.title}}

*Present/Contributors*: Graeme Stewart, Andrei Gheata, Danilo Piparo,
Pere Mato, Serhan Mete, Caterina Doglioni, David Lange, Jim Amundson,
Stefan Roiser, Paul Laycock, Heather Gray, Michel Jouvin, Liz
Sexton-Kennedy, Andrea Rizzi, Javier Cervantes Villaneuva

*Apologies*: Agnieszka Dziurda

## News, general matters
  - OpenLab Nvidia workshop:
      - 25 March at CERN:
        [<span class="underline">https://indico.cern.ch/event/803015/</span>](https://indico.cern.ch/event/803015/).
      - One day “overview” of hardware and tools, idea to then follow
        up on most interesting topics,
  - Electron Ion Consortium Software Workshop:
      - 20-21 May in Trieste, Italy.
      - Graeme has been asked to give a presentation for the HSF.
      - Contact Markus Deifenthaler for more details.

## Google Summer of Code 2019
  - [<span class="underline">Proposal for Advisory
    Committee</span>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/17ifO0i4O5JsBVKkcx3j75Z_iW2bXFnCbqFB2YirlJQw/edit?usp=sharing):
      - Aim is to help to select projects against slots (assuming
        slots \< projects).
          - Should also assess given the potential students.
          - Criteria: novelty, student rank, impact, first time
            projects, projects with multiple proposals, etc.
              - Still need to be agreed on.
      - We approve the idea - it can only help the process.
      - If you would be willing to serve as on the AC please let HSF
        Coordination know.
          - Pete Elmer expressed
    interest.

## HSF/WLCG/OSG Workshop News and Planning
  - [<span class="underline">Indico</span>](https://indico.cern.ch/event/759388/) -
    registration is still open with 232 people registered (limit is 250).

### Planning
  - Reminder: David Lange, Michel Jouvin and Graeme Stewart organising
    for HSF.
  - Rooms:
      - JLab managed to improve the room setup - we “upgraded” from a
        room of 60 to a capacity of 100 in the ARC centre.
      - Room assignments are \~done - maybe a few last shuffles to
        optimise for the new room sizes.
      - Will do a sound check with LOC next week to verify Vidyo
        connection is acceptable.
      - Vidyo rooms to be created - Graeme will distributed the
        moderation PIN in case it’s needed.
  - For JLab this meeting is classed as a public event, so there are
    no onerous requirements for entry.
      - However, you do have to bring acceptable government issued
        photo ID.
      - You do need to wear your conference badge on site.
      - Foresee 10’ extra on Monday morning to get a welcome pack and
        your badge
      - See
        [<span class="underline">https://www.jlab.org/visiting</span>](https://www.jlab.org/visiting)
        for information on visitor parking
          - Try to car share from your accommodation\!

## Activity and Working Group Updates
General points:
  - Reminder to make sure your WG page has.
      - Brief description of the interests of the group.
      - Information on how to join the group’s mailing list.
      - Information on how to contact the convenors (convenor list or
        individual emails).
      - A link to the group’s Indico category.

### Data Analysis
  - Talks and speakers confirmed, agenda should reflect that by the
    end of the day.

### Detector Simulation
  - Q: when is the discussion on shared MC samples between
    collaborations happening? Can we invite some
    [<span class="underline">DarkMachines</span>](http://darkmachines.org)
    people?
  - JLab sorted - useful interactions between experiments.
  - [<span class="underline">Topical meeting
    yesterday</span>](https://indico.cern.ch/event/782508/) - 3 talks,
    but filled all of the time as lots of good discussion.

### Reconstruction and Software Triggers
  - JLab sessions all settled (see last week’s notes).
      - Next week: chat (maybe live, maybe email) with speakers to
        look at talks and prepare 3-4 questions for the final
        discussion session.
          - Only used if audience isn’t proposing their own.
      - Since we have Vidyo, we would like to announce the session to
        the HSF trigger&reco list - good idea?
          - Asking for questions via email to avoid possible
            bad-connection problems.
  - Trying to organize first topical meeting.
      - Topics: introduction to trigger&reconstructions for various
        HEP experiments, two by two to encourage cross-talk.
          - Contacted ATLAS&CMS trigger coordinators.
          - They had a (non-public) meeting two weeks ago, we asked
            for a summary of the public parts on:
              - Trigger and DAQ usage/limits and data streaming model.
              - How to design a trigger menu, trigger monitoring.
          - LHCb just put this paper on the arXiv:
            [<span class="underline">https://arxiv.org/abs/1903.01360</span>](https://arxiv.org/abs/1903.01360)
            relevant for discussion.
      - First available option on
        [<span class="underline">calendar</span>](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=e4v33e1a1drbncdle1n03ahpcs%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Europe%2FRome)
        (thanks\!) next week, but many people at ACAT so probably
        postpone to after JLab.

### Software Tools
  - All set for JLab.

### PyHEP
  - WG [<span class="underline">Gitter
    channel</span>](https://gitter.im/HSF/PyHEP) very active with
    almost 70 people signed in\!
  - For information, a couple of extra channels have been created by
    and for the benefit of the
        community:
      - [<span class="underline">PyHEP-histogramming</span>](https://gitter.im/HSF/PyHEP-histogramming)
        for discussions around
        histogramming.
      - [<span class="underline">mpl-hep</span>](https://gitter.im/HSF/mpl-hep)
        for Matplotlib proposals related to Particle Physics.
  - You are more than welcome to join any of the channels and
    contribute to the exchanges\!

### Training
  - Session at JLab organised - 4th talk, but keep time for
    discussion.

### Licensing
  - CERN have a webpage that recommends
        GPLv3:
      - [<span class="underline">https://legal.web.cern.ch/licensing/software-terms-use</span>](https://legal.web.cern.ch/licensing/software-terms-use)
      - Graeme has followed up with KT to discuss this.
  - Still no response from FastJet authors.

### Packaging
  - [<span class="underline">Minutes from 27 Feb are
    available</span>](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/organization/2019/02/27/packaging.html).
      - Next meeting 27 March.

## AOB
  - Any need for a meeting next week? (14 March)
      - Probably not and it’s also ACAT, so many people will be away.
        Only have a meeting if something urgent comes up.
  - See you all at JLab\!
