---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #172, 26 September, 2019"
layout: meetings
---

# {{page.title}}

<span dir="ltr">*Present/Contributors*: Graeme Stewart, Attila
Krasznahorkay, Pere Mato, Marco Clemencic, Daniel Elvira, Paul Laycock,
Gloria Corti, Eduardo Rodrigues, Andrea Rizzi, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, David
Lange, Ben Morgan, Chris Jones, Guilherme Amadio, Michel Jouvin,
Caterina Doglioni, Heather Gray, Sudhir Malik, Stefan Roiser, Kyle
Knopfel</span>

<span dir="ltr">*Apologies*: Agnieszka (at a conference), Serhan Mete
(ATLAS Software Tutorial)</span>

## <span dir="ltr">News, general matters</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Post-JENAS HSF meeting on October 16th can take
    place, 16:00-17:30, at LAL and on Vidyo:</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">JENAS: Meeting ECFA + NuPECC (nuclear) + APPEC
        (astro),
        [<span class="underline">https://jenas-2019.lal.in2p3.fr</span>](https://jenas-2019.lal.in2p3.fr)</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">Idea of this meeting is to start the
        discussion with other communities, opening the road to
        discussions on more practical problems.</span>
          - <span dir="ltr">Example of successful tool sharing: Rucio,
            also more in GW</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">Practicalities</span>
          - <span dir="ltr">Speakers</span>
              - <span dir="ltr">We don‚Äôt mean to have an exhaustive
                list of speakers (would be difficult to do), this is a
                first brainstorming that can reach a relatively large
                audience due to the context.</span>
              - <span dir="ltr">Both APPEC and ECFA presidents will be
                present.</span>
              - <span dir="ltr">‚ÄúIntro-to-HSF‚Äù speaker, any
                (remote/live) volunteers?</span>
                  - <span dir="ltr">Better that it‚Äôs in person -
                    Graeme can do it.</span>
              - <span dir="ltr">Plenty of options from astroparticle,
                none from nuclear:</span>
                  - <span dir="ltr">Astroparticle options:</span>
                    <span dir="ltr">(prioritize people @
                    workshop)</span>
                      - <span dir="ltr">CTA (Stefan Schlensted,
                        software responsible)</span>
                          - <span dir="ltr">Not registered</span>
                      - <span dir="ltr">SKA/DUNE (maybe invite Andy
                        McNab)</span>
                          - <span dir="ltr">Not registered</span>
                      - <span dir="ltr">ESCAPE (Giovanni
                        Lamanna)</span>
                          - <span dir="ltr">Speaking, not registered ‚Üí
                            emailed first</span>
                      - <span dir="ltr">DM (Chris Tunnell, was at JLab
                        WS)</span>
                          - <span dir="ltr">Not registered</span>
                  - <span dir="ltr">Neutrino:</span>
                      - <span dir="ltr">IceCube (Anna Frankoviak,
                        analysis coordinator)</span>
                      - <span dir="ltr">KM3NeT/ANTARES (Antoine
                        Kouchner)</span>
                          - <span dir="ltr">Michel could ask for
                            contact, if not himself ‚Üí emailed</span>
                  - <span dir="ltr">Nuclear: any suggestions?</span>
                      - <span dir="ltr">FAIR people ‚Üí HSF/Graeme‚Äôs
                        contacts</span>
                      - <span dir="ltr">Jerome Lauret -
                        BNL/STAR</span>
                      - <span dir="ltr">Michel can ask as well</span>
                  - <span dir="ltr">Graeme and Caterina can send
                    invitations (today)</span>
          - <span dir="ltr">How to announce?</span>
              - <span dir="ltr">JENAS website once speakers.</span>
              - <span dir="ltr">HSF mailing list.</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">\[Caterina at dark matter conference\]:
        Astroparticle community very positive to this, but need to sit
        down together to work on something in practice as
        data/software needs are usually quite different</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">[<span class="underline">UK RSE
    conference</span>](https://rseconuk2019.sched.com/) last week,
    Stefan Roiser presented the idea of a
    [<span class="underline">scientific software
    institute</span>](https://rseconuk2019.sched.com/event/QSRK/4a2-community-and-collaboration-the-setup-of-an-institute-for-scientific-software-connecting-applied-computing-and-data-intensive-sciences),
    with the idea of establishing better connections between natural
    science and computer science research. The presentation was well
    received though no concrete actions emerged from it immediately.
    From earlier brainstorming this year a</span>
    <span dir="ltr">[<span class="underline">one page
    statement</span>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EiyksWLFnc4Qo7OfCoNjtBxTgJTZFKkHTXvvnhOcv_4/edit)
    with the main ideas of this initiative is available.</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">After the Computing seminar on Wed several met
        with the speaker who is also author of Alpaka
        ([<span class="underline">https://arxiv.org/abs/1602.08477</span>](https://arxiv.org/abs/1602.08477)).
        The possibility of holding a workshop on Alpaka as a concrete
        example of computer science and natural science collaboration
        (also including photon science & others) was discussed.</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">Alpaka training at CERN foreseen (would be
        useful for core software and reconstruction
        developers).</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">What we really want is for things to get into
        the C++ standard\!</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">GDB Chair (Ian Collier) has invited HSF to have a
    member on the GDB steering group.</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">Meets after each GDB and provides advice to
        the GDB chair about topics for future meetings.</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">We are positive about this.</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">Important to have an increasing recognition
        for software and the role of the HSF.</span>

## <span dir="ltr">Activity and Working Group Updates</span>

### <span dir="ltr">Data Analysis</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Nothing specific to report, work on preparing the
    preCHEP workshop (see later).</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Please note the EP seminar
    [<span class="underline">https://indico.cern.ch/event/849610/</span>](https://indico.cern.ch/event/849610/).</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">This is a new [<span class="underline">CERN EP
        Software Seminar
        series</span>](https://indico.cern.ch/category/11577/), that
        is a great initiative for showcasing software advances. We
        should make a general announcement of that on the HSF
        list.</span>

### <span dir="ltr">Detector Simulation</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">We will resume the topical meetings. The current
    plan is to have one before CHEP and another one at the end of
    November/beginning of December.</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">We are discussing potential topics for them as
    well as for next year.</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Geant4 collaboration meeting this week has a
    session on Computing performance with reports from all
    experiments,
    [<span class="underline">https://indico.cern.ch/event/825306/sessions/314167/\#20190926</span>](https://indico.cern.ch/event/825306/sessions/314167/#20190926).</span>

### <span dir="ltr">Reconstruction and Software Triggers</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Plans for this Fall:</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">Originally planned meeting on ATLAS/CMS/ALICE
        SW optimization in trigger and reconstruction on October 2nd,
        but may be postponed as many ATLAS trigger experts are
        organizing a hackathon. ATLAS speaker available on October
        9th, no conflicts in the calendar if we do 5 to 6 pm
        (sacrificing 1h of ATLAS week) but need to check CMS/ALICE
        availability.</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">Next meetings: include more reconstruction, so
        talked to ATLAS reco experts, main interests to add to our
        original ones [<span class="underline">in the July
        report</span>](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/organization/2019/07/11/coordination.html):</span>
          - <span dir="ltr">Priority is run-4 tracking</span>
          - <span dir="ltr">Particle flow cross-talk between ATLAS and
            CMS (and future colliders?)</span>
          - <span dir="ltr">Calorimeter reconstruction on ML</span>
          - <span dir="ltr">More futuristic: tracking on quantum
            computers</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">More ambitious plans for the future: would be
    interested in thinking about a HSF COST action for the April
    deadline:
    [<span class="underline">https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1facB4BKuN4zm66C9JtoOhDa68rqenIz-cWWqdhLpSfY/edit?usp=sharing</span>](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1facB4BKuN4zm66C9JtoOhDa68rqenIz-cWWqdhLpSfY/edit?usp=sharing).</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">Needs more people than us to be on board /
        think it‚Äôs useful.</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">Main pros:</span>
          - <span dir="ltr">Very open funding tool.</span>
              - <span dir="ltr">Once a consortium gets it, others can
                join afterwards as full members & access funding as
                well.</span>
          - <span dir="ltr">Could fund HSF (WLCG) workshops.</span>
          - <span dir="ltr">Would encourage student exchanges / stays
            at CERN to work with experts.</span>
          - <span dir="ltr">Can join up with other COST actions and
            work together on software</span>
              - <span dir="ltr">Some examples:</span>
                  - <span dir="ltr">PARTICLEFACE (Precision particle
                    physics) -
                    [<span class="underline">https://particleface.eu</span>](https://particleface.eu).</span>
                  - <span dir="ltr">VBSCAN (Vector Boson Scattering
                    theory & experiment)-
                    [<span class="underline">https://vbscanaction.web.cern.ch</span>](https://vbscanaction.web.cern.ch).</span>
                  - <span dir="ltr">GWVERSE (Gravitational waves,
                    black holes & fundamental physics)
                    [<span class="underline">http://www.cost.eu/COST\_Actions/ca/CA16104</span>](http://www.cost.eu/COST_Actions/ca/CA16104).</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">Main cons</span>
          - <span dir="ltr">Not much money compared to other
            grants.</span>
              - <span dir="ltr">Can consider it as ‚Äúseed money‚Äù for
                bigger things.</span>
          - <span dir="ltr">Non-negligible paperwork, so we‚Äôd have to
            crowdsource‚Ä¶</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">Maybe something we discuss in a dedicated
        meeting?</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">TODO: post HSF trigger&reco meeting live notes to
    our own webpage...</span>

### <span dir="ltr">Software Tools</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Reminder: TAU Seminar</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">Monday October 14th at 5pm CERN time Room:
        40/S2-D01</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">[<span class="underline">https://indico.cern.ch/event/845622/</span>](https://indico.cern.ch/event/845622/)</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">Graeme and Serhan will meet (w/b 7 October) to
        discuss the details of installing the tool to
        /cvmfs/hsf.org.</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Thanks to Gordon, pinged Marc Goodner from VS Code
    about Visual Studio (waiting response).</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">Could do something more targeted towards our
        community - building on CVMFS and Docker. Should interact a
        bit in advance.</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">Ben - this would be very useful for DUNE and
        packaging.</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Planning to contact Luca and Guillermo from IT for
    a possible seminar/tutorial for using Intel Parallel Studio XE if
    people think that‚Äôd be useful.</span>

### <span dir="ltr">PyHEP</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">PyHEP 2019 workshop basically ready (just small
    things to be done at this stage).</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Final agenda is now online and will be advertised
    soon.</span>

### <span dir="ltr">Training</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Training meeting on Monday discussed organisation
    for CERN Software Carpentries workshop at the end of
    November.</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Training ‚Äúpre‚Äù blueprint meeting planned (to
    assess scaling of past carpentries material and plan
    future)..</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">LAWSCHEP workshop in Mexico City, November 20-23,
    2019. 25+5 min presentation on ‚ÄúSoftware training needs and
    challenges‚Äù
    ([<span class="underline">https://indico.cern.ch/event/847294/</span>](https://indico.cern.ch/event/847294/))</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">19 Aug - 23 Aug, 2019 -</span>
    <span dir="ltr">[<span class="underline"> ATLAS Software
    Carpentries Training</span>](https://indico.cern.ch/event/816946/)
    (*LBNL*).</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Training meetings are now Mondays 15h30. Reminder
    - sign up to the [<span class="underline">training WG
    list</span>](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/hsf-training-wg).</span>

### <span dir="ltr">Packaging</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Meeting regularly each month, practical work
    focused on Spack as a prototype tool (work at FNAL and
    CERN).</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Next meeting 9 October.</span>

### <span dir="ltr">Frameworks</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Trying to get a foothold for the moment‚Ä¶</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">After some discussions with Chris and Kyle, we
    will have a first meeting for the group next Wednesday.</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">[<span class="underline">https://indico.cern.ch/event/851540/</span>](https://indico.cern.ch/event/851540/).</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">Gathering input from ATLAS & CMS at first, as
        that seems the easiest/safest as the first meeting üòõ.</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">In the first few meetings we will invite
    experiments to talk about their current efforts with their
    software frameworks, mainly about the issues that they want to
    solve in the non-too-distant future.</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">Will start with more topical meetings
        afterwards</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Plan to have 2 meetings until CHEP (with next
    Wednesday‚Äôs being one of them).</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">So that we may have something to talk about in
        a possible parallel meeting there. But on this we‚Äôll just have
        to see what we have by the time we get there.</span>

## <span dir="ltr">Workshops</span>

### <span dir="ltr">Next HSF/WLCG Workshop</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">First, many thanks to all of the people who prepared bids. This is non-trivial work and we really appreciate all the effort.</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">All bids had very attractive aspects\!</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">The feedback from the community highlighted
    positive aspects from every bid; overall it was very useful in
    helping us to make a choice.</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Based on logistical constraints and on the
    feedback we received we decided that the next workshop will be in
    **Lund from 11-15 May 2020**.</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">Congratulations to Caterina, Mattias and Oxana - we look forward to this a lot.</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">We have a few logistical points we need to work on
    pretty soon.</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">It would be good to reduce costs for Early
        Career Researchers over more senior people (reduced
        registration and priority for less expensive
        accommodation).</span>
          - <span dir="ltr">(Pre-)booked 29 single rooms for \~60
            EUR/night/person and 22 doubles for 30
            EUR/night/person.</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">The Friday before the workshop (8 May) is a
        public holiday in France and in the UK.</span>
          - <span dir="ltr">Do we start later on Monday to allow
            people to travel to Lund on Monday, rather than
            Sunday?</span>
          - <span dir="ltr">What time to finish on Friday to allow for
            reasonable travel home?</span>
              - <span dir="ltr">From personal experience (Caterina):
                leave for airport \~3.5h before flight if no checked
                bags, there is a very convenient flight back to Geneva
                at 20:50. Finishing at lunchtime would allow for this
                and earlier flights.</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">Input on these points is already
        welcome\!</span>

### <span dir="ltr">Pre-CHEP, Analysis Systems: From Future Facilities to Final Plots (2-3 November)</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Workshop will be divided into two:</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">Saturday PM, 8 speakers laying out challenges
        and opportunities for analysis in the future.</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">Sunday AM, an interactive session with
        everyone involved in gathering ideas to tackle 4 key questions
        for the future of analysis.</span>
          - <span dir="ltr">Details to be circulated in the next few
            weeks.</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Timetable is in place:</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">[<span class="underline">https://indico.cern.ch/event/805983/timetable/\#20191102.detailed</span>](https://indico.cern.ch/event/805983/timetable/#20191102.detailed).</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Local organisers have done a great job to provide
    us with suitable rooms for the Sunday activities - thanks to
    them.</span>

### <span dir="ltr">Latin American Workshop on Software and Computing Challenges in HEP (Mexico, Nov 20-23)</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Latin American PIs have been able to find funding,
    so they will be present.</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Strong international presence.</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">IRIS-HEP are participating and sponsoring (can
    fund US participants).</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Aim to have all of the sections of the CWP roadmap
    represented.</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Workshop will be small, but should have all key
    people and that can be a way to start cooperation (within Latin
    America and with the wider community).</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">CMS and ATLAS invited.</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Hope that registration will be usable to support
    LA students to present their work (posters).</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Sponsorship from AWS fell though, unfortunately.</span>

## <span dir="ltr">AOB</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Important experiment week dates seem to be a bit
    weak in the calendar for 2020.</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">Can some names individuals take charge of LHC + Belle II + Dune + ...?</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">CMS - Liz can take care.</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">DUNE - not clear what state they are
        in.</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">Belle II - Paul will follow up</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">ATLAS - Graeme</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">ALICE and LHCb: ask computing
        coordinators?</span>
  - <span dir="ltr">Next Rucio workshop will be at FNAL. Want to avoid
    clash with CTD (in Princeton).</span>
      - <span dir="ltr">David - CTD will now probably be at the end of
        the week April 20-24.</span>
