---
title: "HSF Steering Group Meeting, 14 October 2024"
layout: plain_toc
---

## Attending

Present/Contributing: Graeme Stewart, Stefan Roiser, Torre Wenaus, Eduardo Rodrigues, Mark Neubauer

Apologies: Andrea Valassi, Paul Laycock

## Discussions with Activity Areas

Any discussions to report on?

| Activity                             | SG Responsible  | Met?         |
| ------------------------------------ | --------------- | ------------ |
| Data Analysis                        | Eduardo + Mark  | Not yet      |
| Detector Simulation                  | Torre + Graeme  | This week    |
| Physics Generators                   | Liz + Stefan    | Y            |
| JuliaHEP                             | Pere            | Y (implicit) |
| PyHEP                                | Eduardo         | Y (implicit) |
| Reconstruction and Software Triggers | Michel + Paul   |              |
| Tools and Packaging                  | Liz + 1?        | Y            |
| Training                             | Graeme + Nicole | Y            |

Liz met with the Tools and Packaging conveners (as reported in last week's Coodination Meeting).

We should discuss regular slots that could be used for activity area meetings - topic for next coordination meeting.

Generators - Sapta had an idea for a follow-up to last year's workshop, looking at event generation on GPUs.

## European Strategy Update 2025

We devoted last week's coordination meeting to this topic (see [slides](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1355758/contributions/5708314/attachments/2945044/5175250/HSF%20Inputs%20from%20European%20Strategy%20Update.pdf)).

Intention is to cover as a core: Event generators, simulation, reconstruction, analysis, plus training and careers.

Those working groups that were there responded positively.

Our proposed timeline is:

- Now -> beginning of January: activity meetings to get the community feedback on the topic you mentioned
    - A one afternoon mini-workshop looks like it would be a good model
    - We can certainly allow people to submit short white papers as well
- January : writing of chapter drafts
- Feb 1-15: assembling of chapters, first paper draft
- Feb 15 - March 1 : draft circulation and finalization
- March: community endorsement (something like what we did for the CWP, asking for people to sign it)

Length is not set in stone, but we think about 3-5 pages per activity will be about right. 20-25 pages in total.

Michel and Graeme have followed up with the key activity areas to help generate momentum - there is not much time. 

And additional help would be very welcome (Andrea is happy to contribute to the generator chapter).

## Seminar Series

[Indico](https://indico.cern.ch/category/18810/); Coordinators: Benedikt, Michel, ~~Andrea~~

We need an additional helper here!

Got an initial boost from JuliaHEP:

- 1 October, Julia in high-energy physics: a paradigm shift or just another tool?
- 3 October, Julia as a Statically-Compiled Language

Future dates:

- 30 October (probably this one slips..)
    - Summaries/highlights of community meetings (JuliaHEP, Rucio, CHEP)?
    - Torre will suggest this to the seminar organisers
- 27 November, Generators?
- 29 January
- 26 February

Nothing *confirmed* yet?

Note the [4D Tracking for Future Colliders Workshop](https://indico.slac.stanford.edu/event/8992) on November 7, 2024. Could provide some useful input on topics and/or speakers for a future HSF Seminar. 

## HSF Affiliated Projects

The description of [HSF Affiliated Projects and Software](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/projects/affiliated.html) is now on the website. It motivates the activity and sets out some of the parameters for things like reviews, defining requirements and providing reference implementations.

The actual [guidelines for projects](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/projects/guidelines.html) are on a separate page.

- Projects (theirs or others) who would like to trial the process of becoming an affiliate?
    - Graeme: [prmon](https://github.com/HSF/prmon); [JetReconstruction.jl](https://github.com/JuliaHEP/JetReconstruction.jl)

Need a volunteer from the SG to check the criteria and report to the SG for approval.

- Eduardo will check prmon.
- Ask Pere about JetReconstruction.jl.

## Advisory Group

The [Advisory Group mandate](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/organization/advisory-group.html) is published. Invitations have been sent to the large HEP experiments (ALICE, ATLAS, Belle II, DUNE, CMS, LHCb), WLCG and the theory community (MCnet).

So far positive responses from MCnet, LHCb and ALICE.

Intention would be to have a first AG meeting early next year.

## AOB

### Coordination Meetings

As ever... [chairing sign up document](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Z1Z4payCpieOLiVFcC6y9j-KCj71u6xX232LHUgIHfI/edit). We need one more volunteer for 2024, for 7 November.

And we have to start planning for next year!

### Domain

Torre made enquiries with BNL who seem to be willing to take over ownership of the domain. Any news?

- Procedure is established, but this will take a bit of time (there is a prior knowledge on this from <https://www.usatlas.org>).

### Next Meeting

Next meeting in 4 weeks time? 11 November. (US, French public holiday, so not ideal - we may poll.)
