---
title: "HSF Steering Group Meeting, 19 November 2024"
layout: plain_toc
---

## Attending

Present/Contributing: Graeme Stewart, Paul Laycock, Benedikt Hegner, Eduardo Rodrigues

Apologies: Stefan Roiser, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, Torre Wenaus

## News

### Talks

Graeme gave an HSF talk at DESY last week: [slides on Zenodo](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.14186952).

### Experiment Discussions

Good discussion with Mike Kirby from DUNE about increasing their HSF involvement.

### LHCC

- Eduardo's presentation on behalf of the HSF and various projects was well received.
- It was appreciated that the proposals made earlier in the year are now put into practice.
- Interest in seeing more projects/libraries as affiliated.

## Activity Areas

{:.table .table-hover .table-condensed .table-striped}
| Activity                             | SG Responsible  | Met?         |
| ------------------------------------ | --------------- | ------------ |
| Data Analysis                        | Eduardo + Mark  | Y (Graeme+Michel) |
| Detector Simulation                  | Torre + Graeme  | Y            |
| Physics Generators                   | Liz + Stefan    | Y            |
| JuliaHEP                             | Pere            | Y (implicit) |
| PyHEP                                | Eduardo         | Y (implicit) |
| Reconstruction and Software Triggers | Michel + Paul   | Y (Graeme+Michel) |
| Tools and Packaging                  | Liz + 1?        | Y            |
| Training                             | Graeme + Nicole | Y            |

Graeme and Michel had the chance to meet with Data Analysis and Reconstruction and Software Triggers conveners at CHEP. We discussed general activity strategy, HSF Seminars and EPPSU.

### Coordinators 2025

We are asking coordinators if they want to stay on for next year (needs pushed a bit!).

Would anyone like to volunteer for the search committee? Currently this is Graeme, Liz, Michel, Benedikt and Claire, but we are open to rotation. Paul will join the team.

## European Strategy Update 2025

Things are in motion!

Activity area mini-workshops are being organised:

- **Detector Simulation** Community input on the European Strategy for Particle Physics Update, Friday 22 November, 15h-18h CET, <https://indico.cern.ch/event/1475445/> (at CERN meeting in 2/R-030)
- **Reconstruction and Software Triggers** Mini workshop: Input for European Strategy for Particle Physics 2025, Wednesday 27 November, 14-16h CET, <https://indico.cern.ch/event/1475492/>

Data Analysis and Physics Generators should announce their dates soon.

In discussions with the experiments about them endorsing the final document - ALICE and LHCb are favourable.

## Seminar Series

Future dates:

- 27 November - Event Generation on GPUs
- 29 January - ?
- 26 February - 4D Tracking

[Indico](https://indico.cern.ch/category/18810/); Coordinators: Benedikt, Michel.

We need an additional organiser here.

## HSF Affiliated Projects

First review, prmon, is done.

*We are struggling to find people to do these reviews.* NNPDF asked more than a month ago to be included, but so far we have no reviewer.

- Eduardo happy to do it *with someone else*. Ask our generator conveners?

Also start to approach our previous projects.

## Advisory Group

The [Advisory Group mandate](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/organization/advisory-group.html) was published. Large HEP experiments (ALICE, ATLAS, Belle II, DUNE, CMS, LHCb), WLCG and the theory community (MCnet) were contacted and all responded positively.

Intention would be to have a first AG meeting early next year.

## AOB

### Coordination Meetings

As ever... [Chairing sign up document](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Z1Z4payCpieOLiVFcC6y9j-KCj71u6xX232LHUgIHfI/edit). Slots are in for 2025.

### Domain

Torre made enquiries with BNL who seem to be willing to take over ownership of the domain. Any news?

- Procedure is established, but this will take a bit of time (there is a prior knowledge on this from <https://www.usatlas.org>).

### Next Meeting

We really did not find a good regular slot for this meeting. Should we return to the Monday 15h slot? Use alternate Thursday 15h slots? Or pick a non-HSF Seminar Wednesday 16h30 slot? Or just newdle on demand, given these are occasional meetings...?

- Looks like Mondays 15h might be easier for LHCb people now

If we need another meeting this year, w/b 9 December would be an option - but we can continue to track things via the usual Coordination meetings.
