---
title: "HSF Coordination Meeting #277, 7 November 2024"
layout: plain_toc
---

## Attending

Present/Contributing: Graeme Stewart, Tommaso Lari, Liz Sexton Kennedy, Patrick Gartung, Pere Mato, Steve Gardiner, Alex Held, Jamie Gooding, Eduardo Rodrigues, Uwe Acosta, Michel Jouvin, Sapta Battacharya, Claire Antel, Joe Osborn, Krzysztof Genser, Steve Mrenna

Apologies/Contributing: Stefan Roiser, Alexander Moreno

## News, general matters, announcements

### LHCC

The [HSF/community software report](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1CpzzNiZjRtGj3dAnraukziNLk9Mk_SfxJoJ_Dt2lC6U/edit?usp=sharing) for the LHCC Referees meeting of Nov. 19th is ready and available for feedback. It will be sent to the LHCC start of next week, one week ahead of the meeting.

- Thank you to those that provided material and/or feedback already.

Alex - what feedback do we get?

- LHCC provides formal and informal feedback - they have been very enthusiastic about the changes we are putting in place.
- Eduardo also passes the messages back in this meeting.
- We should also post in this meeting when the LHCC minutes come out (which are usually very brief).

### European Strategy Update (ESPPU)

General points:

- Activity conveners have been contacted to discuss their involvement in the process, some discussions F2F at CHEP
- The bi-weekly coordination meeting is the place that will be used to coordinate the work
- We discovered that the page limit for contributions is **10 pages** only
    - If we aim for a single document then this is 2 pages per topic
- LHCb are interested preparing the document and endorsing it at the experiment level
    - Particularly for career paths and training
    - This is very positive and goes beyond individual endorsement
    - We have contacted other experiments to propose the same (waiting for feedback)

Liz: will your experiment also make a submission from the software and computing area?

- ATLAS are - Claire is meeting them tomorrow
- LHCb are

HSF's paper will be a *complimentary one* to the experiments.

#### Activity Area Preparations

##### Physics Generators

Need to have a meeting between the conveners and the SG. Sapta will organise this. It's urgent to have the mini-workshop this year and there's not much time left.

See also [Oliver's CHEP plenary](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1338689/contributions/6054977/), which was a great introduction. Negative weights and NNLO are urgent topics. Steve G can arrange a contribution from neutrino side.

Generators on GPU talks would be ideal for an HSF Seminar - relevant but not sufficient for EPPSU.

##### Detector Simulation

Organizing community input meeting, [scheduled for November 22nd](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1475445/). We have contacted the LHC experiments, Geant4, Celeritas, and AdePT contacts, FCC and muon collider contacts, and the US IF simulation list. The idea is to have short talks (10') for each experiment/project and some discussion. We will advertise the meeting soon (i.e. write to hsf-simulation and hsf-forum), with the goal to finalize the agenda next week. 

##### Reconstruction and Software Triggers

Organizing mini-workshop for community input on November 27. Have reached out to speakers and need to advertise to community once we confirm some speakers.
<https://indico.cern.ch/event/1475492/>

Finalized 4D reconstruction HSF seminar date for Feb 26th.

##### Data Analysis

Aiming at having a meeting in early December to host a discussion on a set of topics prepared by us (which would turn into draft of document), plus inviting additional lightning talk contributions.

##### Training and Careers

Conveners not in today's meeting. However, we agreed to use the pre-CHEP workshop and the JENA WP5 workshop (18-20 Nov, <https://indico.cern.ch/event/1456664/>) as the places to gather inputs.

### HSF Seminar Series

The seminar series is up and running. We had two events early October.

Next scheduled dates, with confirmed topics, are:

- 27 November: Generators (announcement planned shortly)
- 29 January:
- 26 February: 4D reconstruction
- March: EPPSU

Please coordinate with Michel and Benedikt!

HSF Seminars should be of wider interest and accessible to non-experts.

## Steering Group News

### Advisory Group

We have had positive responses for the AG from LHC Experiments, MCnet, Belle II and DUNE.

First meeting with the AG would not be until next year.

### HSF Affiliated Projects and Software

The description of [HSF Affiliated Projects and Software](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/projects/affiliated.html) is now on the website. The actual [guidelines for projects](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/projects/guidelines.html) are on a separate page.

First review towards an affiliation is ongoing! Deadline for comments on the review [GDoc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZsIkMuNC2hJWtZRRO4dPCXVKrhjlC8nPWMtfnDgjXKI/edit?usp=sharing) of the [prmon package](https://github.com/HSF/prmon) is tomorrow Nov. 8th. The SG will then do the formal endorsement (of the review) as stipulated on the document above.

Open request to review NNPDF - would someone like to handle this?

Alex - what are we trying to achieve with the badges? Is it a lot of bureaucracy for little gain? Only a few projects could achieve a gold badge, which seems problematic. Will reviews be redone regularly (due to time-sensitive criteria)? Who is the target audience for the information conveyed by the badge? Suggestion - people could also self-certify. Mixing in long term funding, for example, into the badge, looks negative as that can be very difficult for projects to achieve.

Eduardo - not a huge amount of bureaucracy, but we have to have a process which is open, and therefore needs to be a little bit formal. This should be a win-win, both for the developers (recognition!) and users.

Krzysztof - badges are useful as they give the community some insight into metrics that were evaluated externally. Maintainability is important so that users can rely on the package.

Pere - maintenance continuity, not funding.

Liz - many things in our fields funded for 5 years only. Quality software can then be taken on, after the initial period.

## Activity Updates

It is time to consider again conveners for 2025. Are people happy to stay on or feel it is time to stand down?

For now please let us know at hsf-search-committee@cern.ch (currently Benedikt, Claire, Michel, Liz, Graeme).

### Data Analysis

Hosted meeting on Scipp library last week (https://indico.cern.ch/event/1461088/), lots of constructive discussion and exchange of ideas to improve both Scipp and awkward-array.
Planning to have a meeting to discuss input to ESPPU early December.

### Software Training

#### Last Events

- [HSF Training Pre-CHEP Workshop](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1410343/) - October 19-20. 

#### Next Events

- Stub entry for next C++ training 10-14 Mar 25 at https://indico.cern.ch/event/1477096/

### JuliaHEP

- Julia made quite an impact at CHEP. Graeme gave a plenary talk and there were 7 parallel presentations (many from JuliaHEP colleagues).

### Compute and Accelerator Forum

- Next meeting 13 November, [Heterogeneous Accelerated Compute Cluster](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1329695/) by Gustavo Alonso (ETHZ)
- 12 Feb '25, [Verrou floating point stability checker](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1472679/) (valgrid based tool developed in EDF/France)

---

## AOB

### Next Meeting

Next meeting will be [21 November](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1355761/).

### 2025 Meetings

[Coordination meeting slots](https://indico.cern.ch/category/7970/) have been booked for 2025 - the usual pattern every two weeks on *odd* weeks of the year. The first meeting next year will be on 16 January 2025.

Reminder: please [sign up](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Z1Z4payCpieOLiVFcC6y9j-KCj71u6xX232LHUgIHfI/edit) for chairing this or one of the future coordination meetings - including 2025!
