---
title: "HSF Coordination Meeting #272, 18 July 2024"
layout: plain_toc
---
## Attending

Present/Contributing: Graeme Stewart, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, Tommaso Lari, Sapta Bhattacharya, Benedikt Hegner, Claire Antel, Nick Smith, Steve Mrenna, Joe Osborn, Stefan Roiser

Apologies/Contributing: Eduardo Rodrigues, Michel Jouvin, Krzysztof Genser

## News, general matters, announcements

### SPECTRUM/JENA Survey on Software, Computing, Training...

> Dear Colleagues from Research / Infrastructures,
>
> The SPECTRUM project [1] and the JENA Computing Initiative [2] are conducting a survey to gather insights on current best practice and expected future evolutions in the domain of large scale / data intensive scientific computing.
>
> The survey is directed at researchers, managers of scientific initiatives and infrastructure managers, either on individual or institutional bases.
>
> Our goal is to collect from the community insights on current best practice and expected future evolutions in the domain of large scale / data intensive scientific computing. This is important also for you, if you want to inform policy makers and funders about the needs from science and infrastructures and push in the direction of future interoperability.

[Full announcement](https://www.spectrumproject.eu/article/spectrumjena-survey-on-the-future-of-scientific-computing)

[Link to Survey](https://ec.europa.eu/eusurvey/runner/SPECTRUM-JENA_Survey1)

Please consider filling this in and also helping to disseminate it to your colleagues.

The survey is *differentiated* - filling in the Software and Training part (of most interest to HSF) should only take 10-15 minutes.

---

## Steering Group News

At the SG meeting on [24 June](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/organization/2024/06/24/steering.html) Graeme Stewart was elected the Steering Group chair for the next year.

### SG Meeting 2024-07-14

Minutes are trapped in limbo on HedgeDoc ðŸ˜­ (hopefully recovereable later)

- We have worked on some updates to the Steering Group mandate [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SxLPq1gUHBCnCcIhrVy7QuqysGshyFAxeUrZlh80NX4/edit?usp=sharing)
- The [documents](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Un1V21LdehQNwkNGeUZOl_GBQ8IdjUpDp5bi9g2YvLg/edit?usp=sharing) for *HSF Affiliate Projects* are developing very nicely.
    - The [criteria](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AiLcqyLA4c1y2Iq-YZyKP7DwN8m2AJb_J44cDuGGAXI/edit?usp=sharing) for different badges are developed
    - And you can see what HSF Badges would look like [here](https://github.com/HSF/hsf.github.io/blob/main/images/HSF-logo/README.md)
- We still need to start to form the [Advisory Group](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1L62pleuuME6K9WLl5T4KQaImPP_Qpc8HSym-XBNTKv8/edit?usp=sharing) - we hope to settle the mandate document soon.

Meanwhile, we're arranging discussions with the activities and working groups to refocus activities in the light of the DESY workshop. In particular we would like suggestions for starting the **HSF Seminar Series** after the summer.

- We intend to reuse the slot for the C&AF (Wednesdays, 16h30 CEST)
- More of a focus on HEP projects (matches perfectly our activity areas)
- By having one regular meeting slot we hope to improve attendance and engagement

Please make suggestions for topics (Graeme can collect them for now).

---

## Working Group / Activity Updates

### Data Analysis

Would have WG activities (like HS3) as well as forum-like topics. Also meeting series led to concrete outcomes, like White Papers.

### Software Training

This really is a *working* group - organising lots of training. Would like to also work on a **white paper**, as it's some years since one was written. HSF training is seen as exemplar by people outside our field.

Need to chase up on the Experiment Training Paper. The Frontiers special CHEP edition unfortunately fell through.

ACTION: Graeme and Liz to follow-up with Allie.

#### C++ Course and Hands-on Training

30 September - 4 October for the Advanced C++ Course.
    
### Detector Simulation

Nothing to report. Group more considers itself in forum mode.

Videos should be uploaded to the HSF YouTube channel (it's much easier to promote them there).

### Reconstruction and Software Trigger

Very keen on the seminar series idea, fits well with the focus of the group as a forum. There is a discussion about 4D tracking that would fit well for the seminar series.

### PyHEP

#### PyHEP 2024

[PyHEP 2024](https://indico.cern.ch/e/PyHEP2024) happened as in its usual online format, 1-4 July. Most popular sessions had ~80 people joining.

Good selection of talks from well known and new packages, showing that the Python world for HEP is as vibrant as ever.

YouTube versions of the talk will come when we have the tome to process the videos!

#### PyHEP.dev 2024

[PyHEP.dev](https://indico.cern.ch/e/PyHEP2024.dev) will happen in Aachen this year, 26 Aug - 30 Aug. You can still register for the event and submit an abstract.

This event is great for developers to talk to each other and exchange knowledge on interoperability of packages.

### Physics Generators

Would want to keep *working* activities, as well as having more forum level discussions.

No meeting of the LPCC MCEG group yet.

Planning a meeting centred around GPUs in MCEGs - could happen after CHEP. This would fit nicely into the seminar series!

### JuliaHEP

#### JuliaCon 2024

Pere and Graeme (along with Jerry Ling and Oliver Schulz) attended this year's [JuliaCon](https://juliacon.org/2024/). Very interesting conference - presentations ranged from scientific (including HPC), to tools, compiler upgrades and interesting talks from Boeing and ASML. Everything is on YouTube to watch.

We had 3 HEP specific presentations (Geant4, JetReconstruction, UnROOT) that were well received.

#### JuliaHEP 2024

We had an organising meeting for [JuliaHEP](https://indico.cern.ch/e/juliahep2024) yesterday (30 Sept - 4 Oct).

We have decided **not** to run a separate tutorial the week before - it's just too much to have an event that lasts 1.5 weeks.

Instead we will run tutorials/hackathons as requested by participants. The registration form will be updated and we'll republish the event before the summer break.

## Other Interest and Activity Areas

### Compute Accelerator Forum

Summer break - reconvene in September.

11 Sept - CARM roofline profiling tool (INESC-ID)
Oct or Nov - RISC-V extension for high precision floating point calculations (CEA)

### Software and Computing Roundtable

---

## AOB

### Live Notes

Unfortunately the hedgedoc demo instance we had been using for the live notes is currently [down](https://community.hedgedoc.org/t/status-of-the-demo-instance/1634/4).

We have moved back to the CERN instance, but this does require a CERN account (even to view AFAICR!).

- Confirmed again - Alex and Joe cannot edit the minutes: "Unauthorized to log in. Your account doesn't meet the required Level of Assurance. Please log in using the account from your organisation."
    - But they can see them, at least.

Note that Google Docs have announced [better markdown support](https://workspaceupdates.googleblog.com/2024/07/import-and-export-markdown-in-google-docs.html).

### Website

There is an [issue in GitHub](https://github.com/HSF/hsf.github.io/issues/1411) to gather ideas about reorganising and revamping the website to better reflect our areas of actual activity. Please contact Mark and Graeme if you would like to help.

Also, we currently have an issue with the [link checker being broken](https://github.com/HSF/hsf.github.io/issues/1559). Tried a few workarounds, but the underlying problem is that the `hepsoftwarefoundation/hsf-jekyll` container is 6 years old - I cannot locate the dockerfile to see how it is built!

### Next Meeting

We now have our summer break - the next meeting will be on [29 August](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1355755/).

Reminder: please [sign up](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Z1Z4payCpieOLiVFcC6y9j-KCj71u6xX232LHUgIHfI/edit) for chairing this or one of the future coordination meetings - we need volunteers from now until the end of the year!
