---
title: "HSF Steering Group Meeting, 24 September 2024"
layout: plain_toc
---

## Attending

Present/Contributing: Graeme Stewart, Eduardo Rodrigues, Benedikt Hegner, Pere Mato, Stefan Roiser, Michel Jouvin

Apologies: Liz Sexton-Kennedy, Nicole Skidmore, Paul Laycock, Torre Wenaus

## Discussions with Activity Areas

Any discussions to report on?

| Activity                             | SG Responsible  | Met?         |
| ------------------------------------ | --------------- | ------------ |
| Data Analysis                        | Eduardo + Mark  |              |
| Detector Simulation                  | Torre + Graeme  |              |
| Physics Generators                   | Liz + Stefan    | Y            |
| JuliaHEP                             | Pere            | Y (implicit) |
| PyHEP                                | Eduardo         | Y (implicit) |
| Reconstruction and Software Triggers | Michel + Paul   |              |
| Tools and Packaging                  | Liz + 1 more?   |              |
| Training                             | Graeme + Nicole | Y            |

Torre has drafted an email to send to simulation conveners, so hopefully meeting soon.

There is some discussion about packaging tools in Belle II, Pere will pass this on to Liz.

- [ ] Need one more SG member to also cover the tools and packaging area with Liz

## European Strategy Update 2025

Key areas: generators, simulation, reconstruction, analysis and training/careers.

**We need a team to manage this process and organise the work with the conveners and the wider community.**

Volunteers: Michel, Graeme, ...

Feedback from coordination meeting? Not so far.

- [ ] Michel, Graeme to reach out to activity conveners

## HSF and SFT reporting to WLCG/LHCC

- Eduardo presented to the LHCC on Sep. 10th the "HSF/community Software Report".
    - Very well received.
    - The LHCC commends the HSF for its evolution and ongoing reorganisation efforts. It also congratulates us on our software stewardship role within the community
(e.g., successful PyHEP initiatives, efforts to explore the role of Julia in HEP, the highly appreciated training programme).
- Eduardo submitted the part "HSF and Community Software Activities" for the October RRB report. (Thank you as ever for the comments/inputs.)
    - This incorporated updates from community projects, such as IRIS-HEP and SWIFT-HEP, as well as from the HSF.

## Seminar Series

[Indico](https://indico.cern.ch/category/18810/); Coordinators: Benedikt, Michel, Andrea

- 1 October, Julia in high-energy physics: a paradigm shift or just another tool?
- 30 October, Reconstruction? (Apparently they contacted speakers)
- 27 November, Generators?

- [ ] Benedikt will follow-up.

## HSF Affiliated Projects

Project [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Un1V21LdehQNwkNGeUZOl_GBQ8IdjUpDp5bi9g2YvLg/edit?usp=sharing) was circulated to the HSF ~2 weeks ago.

Graeme got some private questions on qualifying projects from ATLAS colleagues, e.g., did experiment software count.

A few comments on the [guidelines](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AiLcqyLA4c1y2Iq-YZyKP7DwN8m2AJb_J44cDuGGAXI/edit?usp=sharing) document re. stability of maintainers from Alex.

- Should not be "downgrading" projects, but encouraging investment

Next steps - Pere and Eduardo to take care of

- [ ] Light revision and move to website
- [ ] Concrete project engagement

## Advisory Group

No further comments on the document, so we can proceed.

Initial list of members:

- LHC Expts
- DUNE
- Belle II
- "Small" experiments
- MCNet

Next steps:

- [x] Graeme to draft an email for comments, then contact initial list.
    - It's [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1K5fq41u_HiqvcHWEYrTRXfAxnZmR_PYCXRntKlvrH4I/edit?usp=sharing)
- [ ] Advisory Group mandate should go onto the website.
- [ ] Invitations to computing coordinators / MCnet chairs (not sure for small experiments - Pere and Graeme will have a coffee with the CERN rep.)

It was felt that ePIC/EIC and FCC were a bit immature yet to join the AG, but should look again to other potential members from running experiments at other labs. But in any case, go ahead inviting the above.

## AOB

### Coordination Meetings

[Chairing sign up document](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Z1Z4payCpieOLiVFcC6y9j-KCj71u6xX232LHUgIHfI/edit). We need a few more volunteers from now until the end of the year!

### Domain

Torre made enquiries with BNL who seem to be willing to take over ownership of the domain.

### HSF on Google (and other platforms)

Check accounts used and that information is shared correctly.

| Platform | HSF Account                                | Notes |
| -------- | ---------- | --- |
| Google   | `hepsoftware@gmail.com`   | Calendar and YouTube                                                        |
| Zenodo   | `hsf-editorial-secretariat@googlegroups.com` | Better to have individual accounts manage the community |
| ORCID    | `0000-0002-6574-1593` | Because of Zenodo? Probably not needed                  |
| Twitter/X | `hepsoftfound`      | Probably not going back... |

At least Graeme has these passwords and they can be shared in the Steering Group.

### Next Meeting

To get out of phase with LHCb software board meetings, next SG meeting in **3** weeks time, 14 October: <https://indico.cern.ch/event/1459900/>.
