---
title: "HSF Steering Group Meeting, 9 September 2024"
layout: plain_toc
---

## Attending

Present/Contributing: Graeme Stewart, Pere Mato, Torre Wenaus, Eduardo Rodrigues, Benedikt Hegner, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, Michel Jouvin

Apologies: Andrea Valassi, Nicole Skidmore

## HSF Email Lists

The old coordination list, `hsf-coordination@googlegroups.com`, has been renamed to `hsf-coordination-archive@googlegroups.com`.

- Email to the old list name will now *bounce*
    - Otherwise people think they have contacted the HSF, but in reality haven't
    - Using a new list name allows access to the email archive, in case it is needed (ask Graeme for access)
    - Using a Google list to forward to other lists is not possible in the *gratis* version (also meaning we can't have a list that goes to SG + activity conveners, unfortunately)

The website should be completely updated to the new email list for the steering group, `hsf-steering@googlegroups.com`. If you spot any anachronistic references to the old list, please make a PR or an Issue.

## Coordination Meeting

The coordination meeting on 29 August was not very well attended - some mail went to the wrong list, some of us were stuck in the Architects Forum (LHCC discussion).

Michel has fixed the automated reminders from Indico.

This week Eduardo is chairing - we should send a specific human email to activity conveners and the SG for a good turnout.

- [ ] Eduardo will take care of this.

## HSF Activities

Our working groups and activities have been merged into a single "Activities" area on the website ([PR](https://github.com/HSF/hsf.github.io/pull/1582)).

"Reviews" sits a bit awkwardly here (and it's not even complete) so needs a revamp.

Areas which were actually not active at all were moved to a [*archived* area](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/what_are_activities.html#archive) (Analysis Facilities Forum, Conditions Databases, Differentiable Computing, Frameworks, Visualisation).

### Discussions with Activity Areas

Any discussions to report on?

| Activity      | SG Responsible | Met? |
| ------------- | -------------- | ---- |
| Data Analysis | Eduardo + Mark |      |
| Detector Simulation | Torre + Graeme | |
| Physics Generators | Liz + Stefan | Y |
| JuliaHEP | Pere | Y (implicit) |
| PyHEP | Eduardo | Y (implicit) |
| Reconstruction and Software Triggers | Michel + Paul | |
| Tools and Packaging | Liz | |
| Training | Graeme + Nicole | Y |

It's better to have 2 SG members meet with each of the activity areas.

## Next Workshop

Organised by Michel and IJCLab May 5-9, 2025.

- It was added to the community calendar

*When to setup organising team?* WLCG will help coordinate the announcement, then we will move forward with this.

## European Strategy Update 2025

General agreement that we should contribute to the process.

Key areas seem to be: generators, simulation, reconstruction, analysis and training/careers.

**We need a team to manage this process and organise the work with the conveners and the wider community.**

Volunteers: Michel, Graeme (we need a few more)

- [ ] We need to add a couple more SG members

- Raise this in the next CG meeting

Liz - CMS need to look at WMS. Would produce a white paper for the EPPSU. Who would work on this? If it was HSF/WLCG it needs to be wider than CMS. Process is starting now, collecting information. Some wider engagement in December at a workshop.

## HSF and SFT reporting to WLCG/LHCC

LHCC referees meeting for WLCG is tomorrow: Eduardo will represent the HSF.

Slides:

- [Common and Community Software](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1361TObGpuKHpOLXwaubsBNdJBYPG5aV_32eYblKjpvI/edit?usp=sharing)
- [HSF/community Software Report](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/130zUrEp5gDfKQL6ZIcts7e00qOI697Q8RbLlHuVno3Y/edit?usp=sharing)

Draft for the RRB report will be circulated shortly.

## Seminar Series

To bootstrap the [seminar series](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/meetings/hsf-seminars.html) (with a new [logo](https://github.com/HSF/hsf.github.io/blob/main/images/HSF-logo/hsf-logo-seminar.svg)) we decided that [Uwe's talk](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1452314/) as part of JuliaHEP as the first event. This will be on *1 October*.

As the C&AF meetings are the second week of each month, it seems better to have the seminars generally on the *final Wednesday of each month*, viz.

- 30 October
- 27 November

Steering Group members have offered to coordinate the organisation: Benedikt, Michel, Andrea(?).

Have a stand alone announcement of the HSF Seminar Series.

- [ ] Benedikt/organisers will take care of this.

## HSF Affiliated Projects

As of last time there was an update of the [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Un1V21LdehQNwkNGeUZOl_GBQ8IdjUpDp5bi9g2YvLg/edit?usp=sharing) thanks to Eduardo.

Main change is to remove the distinction of affiliated / non-affiliated projects.

- [ ] Circulate to the Forum list (Thursday; N.B. this document was not previously circulated)
    - We shall also ask projects to express early interest in becoming affiliates
- [ ] Add the updated description of the HSF Affiliation to the website
- [ ] Start to discuss with the projects
    - [ ] Rucio
    - [ ] dCache
    - [ ] ROOT
    - [ ] Geant4
    - [ ] ACTS
    - [ ] Scikit-HEP
    - [ ] ...

This will need some SG volunteering to discuss with the projects.

Please also check the [document on Guidelines](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AiLcqyLA4c1y2Iq-YZyKP7DwN8m2AJb_J44cDuGGAXI/edit?usp=sharing), whose expanded version we need to finalise to then circulate to the HSF Forum.

**Still to be done - can be circulated today.**

- [ ] Graeme will do this.

### Advisory Group

Graeme worked on responding to comments on the [Advisory Group document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1L62pleuuME6K9WLl5T4KQaImPP_Qpc8HSym-XBNTKv8/edit?usp=sharing). Mostly we are down to clarifications of language now, rather than principles. The comments can now be closed, unless someone else wants to add anything.

Initial list of members:

- LHC Experiments
- DUNE
- Belle II
- "Small" experiments
- MCNet

N.B. Software projects are absent from the AG at the moment.

- [ ] Graeme to draft an email for comments, then contact initial list.

## AOB

### Coordination Meetings

[Chairing sign up document](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Z1Z4payCpieOLiVFcC6y9j-KCj71u6xX232LHUgIHfI/edit). We need volunteers from now until the end of the year!

### Live Notes

Finally, this issue seems to be resolved with the publicly editable CERNbox markdown file.

### Domain

Torre made enquiries with BNL who seem to be willing to take over ownership of the domain.

### Website

We cleaned up the last few long standing PRs from Kilian - accepted one that makes the link check workflow better; rejected another reformatting one that changed every file on the site.

### Zenodo

The HSF Zenodo community was managed through a separate Zenodo account with a shared password (to `hsf-editorial-secretariat@googlegroups.com`). It's better instead to have known community managers, so if you would like to help there, let Graeme/Michel/Eduardo know.

This is rather an underused resource!

### HSF on Google

Check accounts used and that information is shared correctly.

### Next Meeting

Next SG meeting in 2 weeks time again, 23 September: <https://indico.cern.ch/event/1449790/>.
