---
title: "HSF Coordination Meeting #273, 29 August 2024"
layout: plain_toc
---

# HSF Coordination Meeting #273, 29 August 2024

---

*This notebook is used to record the minutes of the HSF Coordination meetings. These are archived after each meeting onto the [HSF Website](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org).*

## Tips

- Anyone should be able to edit these notes, but if you have a CERN account it is advisable to login
- If you are adding a URL, please use `<` and `>` to make it an active link, as in `<https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax#autolink>`
    - Without the <>s the link is not active in Jekyll, even if it is in CodiMD
- Please use `-` to indicate lists in this file (we try to avoid mixing `-` and `*` in the same file - it's markdown lint!)
- Please use the Zoom "raise hand" if you'd like to make a comment in the meeting

## Attending

Present/Contributing: Graeme Stewart, Michel Jouvin, Stefan Roiser, Tommaso Lari

Apologies/Contributing: Eduardo Rodrigues, Claire Antel

## News, general matters, announcements

### *Reminder* SPECTRUM/JENA Survey on Software, Computing, Training...

> Dear Colleagues from Research / Infrastructures,
> 
> The SPECTRUM project [1] and the JENA Computing Initiative [2] are conducting a survey to gather insights on current best practice and expected future evolutions in the domain of large scale / data intensive scientific computing.
> 
> The survey is directed at researchers, managers of scientific initiatives and infrastructure managers, either on individual or institutional bases.
> 
> Our goal is to collect from the community insights on current best practice and expected future evolutions in the domain of large scale / data intensive scientific computing. This is important also for you, if you want to inform policy makers and funders about the needs from science and infrastructures and push in the direction of future interoperability.

[Full announcement](https://www.spectrumproject.eu/article/spectrumjena-survey-on-the-future-of-scientific-computing)

[Link to Survey](https://ec.europa.eu/eusurvey/runner/SPECTRUM-JENA_Survey1)

Please consider filling this in and also helping to disseminate it to your colleagues.

The survey is *differentiated* - filling in the Software and Training part (of most interest to HSF) should only take 10-15 minutes.

### Next HSF/WLCG Workshop

The next WLCG/HSF meeting will be hosted by IJCLab in Orsay next May 5-9 (thank you Michel!).

We will need people for the organising team - please say if you are interested.

Topics of mutual interest with WLCG are favoured, but there will also be HSF dedicated sessions.

### European Strategy Update

The [European Particle Physics Strategy Update](https://home.cern/news/news/knowledge-sharing/updating-european-strategy-particle-physics) will be next year:

- Inputs from the community by 31 March 2025
- Open Symposium 23-27 June 2025

We think it is a very good idea to have an input from the HSF on the software that we need for the future and how we achieve it.

This would be a mini-update of the CWP from 2007.

We believe that input coordinated by our **working groups** will be critical to doing this, especially from the critical areas of event generation, simulation, reconstruction and analysis; however, we should not at all forget the *people* dimension, so training and careers are vital to cover.

### LHCC

Eduardo circulated the link to the LHCC presentation via the [Architects' Forum meeting](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1354965/).

The draft [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1361TObGpuKHpOLXwaubsBNdJBYPG5aV_32eYblKjpvI/edit?usp=sharing) are available.

### HSF Seminar Series

We need to progress on organising the Seminar Series for the Autumn. Likely we could have 3 meetings this year at the start of October, November and December? (for September itâ€™s rather late now).
- Using the Computing & Accelerator forum slot (Wednesday 4:30-6:00 pm Geneva time) on other weeks
    - Proposal: last Wednesday of the month
- First seminar foreseen in October: 30th may be in an holiday period
    - Alternative: 16th (23d is CHEP week)
    - Will get in touch soon with Sofware Triggers & Reco who proposed something around 4-D reconstruction

A few Steering Group members have offered to coordinate the organisartion: Benedikt, Michel, Andrea(?)

Suggestions for topics are really needed!

---

## Steering Group News

There was a Steering Group meeting on 26 August and the [minutes](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/organization/2024/08/26/steering.html) are available on the website.

- Steering group is now the official name on the website (if you spot arachonistic references to the Coordination Team please make a PR)
- The HSF Affiliated Projects description has been lightly modified ([document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Un1V21LdehQNwkNGeUZOl_GBQ8IdjUpDp5bi9g2YvLg/edit?usp=sharing), [guidelines on levels](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AiLcqyLA4c1y2Iq-YZyKP7DwN8m2AJb_J44cDuGGAXI/edit))
    - This is now to be circulated to the Forum for feedback (and a call for early adopters)
- The HSF Advisory Group [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1L62pleuuME6K9WLl5T4KQaImPP_Qpc8HSym-XBNTKv8/edit?usp=sharing) recieived a few points of feedback which will be delt with
- We propose to remove the difference between WGs and other activities: everythng will now be called activity.
    - Web site will be updated accordingly

---

## Activity Updates

### General Standing Reminders


#### Website banners

We have the ability to put event banners on the HSF website. All it requires is a markdown file with the event data. See, e.g., files [here](https://github.com/HSF/hsf.github.io/tree/main/announcements/_posts/2023).

#### Meetings

Please try and book meetings in Indico at least 2 weeks in advance!

That way they go into the calendar early and they will be included in the weekly email announcement that goes to HSF Forum.

#### Videos

When meetings are recorded (recommended), please try to put them onto:

- [HSF YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/c/HEPSoftwareFoundation) (ask for permission to do this)
- <videos.cern.ch> (recommended over posting directly)

Then post links to these locations. See [C&AF](https://indico.cern.ch/category/12741/) for examples.

### Data Analysis


### Software Training


#### C++ Course and Hands-on Training

[11th HEP C++ Course and Hands-on Training, Advanced C++](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1430163/) 30 September - 4 October (Mo, We, Fr), registration open now. 
    
### Software Tools and Packaging


### Detector Simulation


### Reconstruction and Software Trigger


### PyHEP

#### PyHEP 2024


#### PyHEP.dev 2024

[PyHEP.dev](https://indico.cern.ch/e/PyHEP2024.dev) is presently happening in Aachen, 26 Aug - 30 Aug.
This event is great for developers to talk to each other and exchange knowledge on interoperability of packages.

### Physics Generators


### JuliaHEP

Next meeting October 2 at 4:30 pm Geneva time
- Will have a general Julia Computing Seminar on 1 October
    - *Could badge this also as the first HSF Seminar?*

## Other Interest and Activity Areas

### Compute Accelerator Forum

- [11 Sep](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1329693/), CARM profiling tool
- [9 Oct](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1329694/), RISC-V extended presicion

### Software and Computing Roundtable


---

## AOB

### Live Notes

Due to a change in CodiMD access policy (limited number of editors for the free access), we moved the live notes to [CERNBox](https://cernbox.cern.ch/s/vaE9Hbv9ZiuOJOn)
- Public link: every person who has it can edit
- No need to have a CERN account but if you have one, it is better if you log in


### Website

There is an [issue in GitHub](https://github.com/HSF/hsf.github.io/issues/1411) to gather ideas about reorganising and revamping the website to better reflect our areas of actual activity. Please contact Mark and Graeme if you would like to help.

The link checker is fixed: <https://github.com/HSF/hsf.github.io/pull/1574>!


### Next Meeting

Next meeting will be [12 September](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1355756/).

Reminder: please [sign up](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Z1Z4payCpieOLiVFcC6y9j-KCj71u6xX232LHUgIHfI/edit) for chairing this or one of the future coordination meetings - we need volunteers from now until the end of the year!

