<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head lang="en">
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1 user-scalable=no">
    <title>HSF Weekly Meeting #127, 22 February, 2018</title>
    <link rel="icon" type="image/x-icon" href="/images/hsf_logo_angled.png">

    <!-- bootstrap framework -->
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/bootswatch/3.3.5/flatly/bootstrap.min.css">

    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/hsf.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<div class="navbar navbar-default">
    <div class="container">
        <div class="navbar-header">
          <a href="/" class="navbar-brand"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-home"></span>&nbsp;&nbsp;HSF</a>
          <button class="navbar-toggle" type="button" data-toggle="collapse" data-target="#navbar-main">
            <span class="icon-bar"></span>
            <span class="icon-bar"></span>
            <span class="icon-bar"></span>
          </button>
        </div>
        <div class="navbar-collapse collapse" id="navbar-main">
          <ul class="nav navbar-nav navbar-center">
            <li class="dropdown">
              <a class="dropdown-toggle" data-toggle="dropdown" href="/index.html" id="wg_menu"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-briefcase"></span>&nbsp;&nbsp;Working Groups<span class="caret"></span></a>
                <ul class="dropdown-menu" aria-labelledby="activities_menu">
                  <li><a href="/what_are_WGs.html">What are HSF working groups?</a></li>
                  <li class="divider"></li>
                  
                    <li><a href="/workinggroups/dataanalysis.html">Data Analysis</a></li>
                  
                    <li><a href="/workinggroups/detsim.html">Detector Simulation</a></li>
                  
                    <li><a href="/workinggroups/frameworks.html">Frameworks</a></li>
                  
                    <li><a href="/workinggroups/generators.html">Physics Generators</a></li>
                  
                    <li><a href="/workinggroups/juliahep.html">JuliaHEP - Julia in HEP</a></li>
                  
                    <li><a href="/workinggroups/pyhep.html">PyHEP - Python in HEP</a></li>
                  
                    <li><a href="/workinggroups/recotrigger.html">Reconstruction and Software Triggers</a></li>
                  
                    <li><a href="/workinggroups/toolsandpackaging.html">Software Developer Tools and Packaging</a></li>
                  
                    <li><a href="/workinggroups/training.html">HSF Training</a></li>
                  
               </ul>
            </li>
            <li class="dropdown">
              <a class="dropdown-toggle" data-toggle="dropdown" href="/index.html" id="activities_menu"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-briefcase"></span>&nbsp;&nbsp;Activities<span class="caret"></span></a>
                <ul class="dropdown-menu" aria-labelledby="activities_menu">
                 <li><a href="/what_are_activities.html">What are HSF activity areas?</a></li>
                 <li class="divider"></li>
                 
                   <li><a href="/activities/analysisfacilitiesforum.html">Analysis Facilities Forum</a></li>
                 
                   <li><a href="/activities/conditionsdb.html">Conditions Databases</a></li>
                 
                   <li><a href="/activities/differentiablecomputing.html">Differentiable Computing</a></li>
                 
                   <li><a href="/activities/gsdocs.html">Season of Docs</a></li>
                 
                   <li><a href="/activities/gsoc.html">Google Summer of Code</a></li>
                 
                   <li><a href="/activities/idds.html">intelligent Data Delivery Service</a></li>
                 
                   <li><a href="/activities/licensing.html">Licensing</a></li>
                 
                   <li><a href="/activities/reviews.html">Reviews</a></li>
                 
                   <li><a href="/activities/visualization.html">Visualisation</a></li>
                 
               </ul>
            </li>
            <li class="dropdown">
              <a class="dropdown-toggle" data-toggle="dropdown" href="/index.html" id="meetings_menu"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-phone-alt"></span>&nbsp;&nbsp;Meetings<span class="caret"></span></a>
                <ul class="dropdown-menu" aria-labelledby="activities_menu">
                 
                   <li><a href="/meetings/compute-accelerator-forum.html">Compute Accelerator Forum</a></li>
                 
                   <li><a href="/meetings/coordination.html">Coordination Meetings</a></li>
                 
                   <li><a href="/meetings/roundtable.html">Software and Computing Roundtable</a></li>
                 
                   <li><a href="/meetings/software-forum.html">Software Forum</a></li>
                 
               </ul>
            </li>
            <li class="dropdown">
              <a class="dropdown-toggle" data-toggle="dropdown" href="/index.html" id="communication_menu"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-bullhorn"></span>&nbsp;&nbsp;Communication<span class="caret"></span></a>
                <ul class="dropdown-menu" aria-labelledby="communication_menu">
                  <li><a href="/future-events.html">Community Calendar</a></li>
                  <li><a href="https://indico.cern.ch/category/5816/" target="_hsf_indico">Meetings: Indico</a></li>
                  <li><a href="/Schools/events.html">Training Schools</a></li>
                  <li class="divider"></li>
                  <li><a href="/forums.html">Mailing Lists and Forums</a></li>
                  <li><a href="/organization/minutes.html">Meeting Notes</a></li>
                  <li><a href="/technical_notes.html">Technical Notes</a></li>
                  <li><a href="/organization/documents.html">Documents</a></li>
                  <li><a href="/material_for_presentations.html">Material for presentations</a></li>
                  <li class="divider"></li>
                  <li><a href="/newsletter.html">Newsletters</a></li>
                  <li><a href="/events.html">Events &amp; Workshops</a></li>
                  <li><a href="https://www.youtube.com/c/HEPSoftwareFoundation" target="_hsf_youtube">HSF on YouTube</a></li>
                  <li class="divider"></li>

                  <li><a href="/inventory/inventory.html">HSF Project Inventory</a></li>
                </ul>
            </li>
            <li class="dropdown">
              <a class="dropdown-toggle" data-toggle="dropdown" href="/projects.html" id="projects_menu"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-road"></span>&nbsp;&nbsp;Projects &amp; Support<span class="caret"></span></a>
                <ul class="dropdown-menu" aria-labelledby="projects_menu">
                  <li><a href="/project_guidelines.html">How to join as a project</a></li>
                  <li><a href="/projects.html">Member Projects</a></li>
                  <li class="divider"></li>
                  <li><a href="/services.html">Development Services</a></li>
                </ul>
            </li>
          </ul>
          <ul class="nav navbar-nav navbar-right">
            <li class="dropdown">
              <a class="dropdown-toggle" data-toggle="dropdown" href="/index.html" id="about_menu"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-info-sign"></span>&nbsp;&nbsp;About<span class="caret"></span></a>
              <ul class="dropdown-menu" aria-labelledby="about_menu">
                <li><a href="/get_involved.html">Get involved!</a><li>
                <li><a href="/organization/team.html">The Coordination Team</a></li>
                <li><a href="/organization/planning/plan-of-work-2023.html">HSF Planning</a></li>
                <li class="divider"></li>
                <li><a href="/organization/goals.html">Goals of the HSF</a></li>
                <li><a href="/organization/cwp.html">Community White Paper</a></li>
                <li><a href="/organization/hsf-letters.html">Letters from the HSF</a></li>
                <li><a href="/organization/presentations.html">HSF Presentations</a></li>
                <li><a href="/organization/youtube.html">HSF YouTube Channel</a></li>
                <li class="divider"></li>
                <li><a href="/howto-website.html">Website Howto</a></li>
              </ul>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>


<div class="container">

<div class="PageNavigation">

  <!-- Note that page sorting is reverse time ordered, so "next" refers to the previous
       meeting in time and "previous" to the next one -->
  
   <p class="alignleft"><a href="/organization/2018/02/21/packaging.html">&nbsp;&#8592; HSF Packaging Group Meeting #19, February 21, 2018</a></p>
  

  
    <p class="alignright"><a href="/organization/2018/03/01/startup.html">HSF Weekly Meeting #128, 1 March, 2018 &#8594;&nbsp;</a></p>
  

</div>

<div style="clear: both;"></div>


<hr>

  <h1 id="hsf-weekly-meeting-127-22-february-2018">HSF Weekly Meeting #127, 22 February, 2018</h1>

<h4 id="presentcontributors-graeme-stewart-benedikt-hegner-marco-clemencic-marco-petric-jim-pivarski-mike-sokoloff-mohammad-al-turany-sudhir-malik-daniel-elvira-helge-meinhard-pere-mato-martin-ritter-peter-elmer-david-lange-liz-sexton-kennedy-giulherme-amadio--michel-jouvin-oli-gutsche-simone-campana"><em>Present/Contributors</em>: Graeme Stewart, Benedikt Hegner, Marco Clemencic, Marco Petric, Jim Pivarski, Mike Sokoloff, Mohammad Al-Turany, Sudhir Malik, Daniel Elvira, Helge Meinhard, Pere Mato, Martin Ritter, Peter Elmer, David Lange, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, Giulherme Amadio,  Michel Jouvin, Oli Gutsche, Simone Campana</h4>

<h1 id="news-general-matters">News, general matters</h1>
<ul>
  <li>Graeme returned the message sent about the <a href="https://foss-backstage.de/">FOSS
Backstage</a> event, but no
response.</li>
</ul>

<h1 id="hsfwlcg-workshop">HSF/WLCG Workshop</h1>
<ul>
  <li>
    <h3 id="general-points">General points</h3>
    <ul>
      <li>139 participants registered so far</li>
      <li>Extended early registration finishes 28 February (in 6 days), so
now is a good time to get people to sign up to come.</li>
      <li>The organisers confirmed that there’s one room with better
vidyo - simulation session will benefit from this. Anyone else
with a particular need?</li>
      <li>For US institutes there is a possibility of support from S2I2
conceptualisation funds, contact Mike Sokoloff if this is
interesting.</li>
      <li>Liz is trying to encourage the head of LArSoft (Erica) to come
for the neutrino field. Will try to get others (Tom, Heidi,
Andrew).</li>
      <li>KEK/Belle II are coming, but could have more (Michel).</li>
      <li>BES/IHEP participation - we think so, Pete and Graeme to follow
up. (Perhaps Xiaomei Xhang or Wenjing Wu, both IHEP)</li>
      <li>Discussion on schedule:
        <ul>
          <li>Simulation and Frameworks could well do with late afternoon
sessions to maximise remote participation. Decided to: swap simulation
AM session with software development; swap frameworks early PM
session with Costs &amp; Performance late PM session. Simulation gains
30’, software development loses 30’.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    <h3 id="monday">Monday</h3>
    <ul>
      <li>Opening Plenary
        <ul>
          <li>Finalised</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Technology Watch
        <ul>
          <li>Skeleton is filled in.</li>
          <li>Interesting work on networking offered - would be difficult
to have if we the vendor talks.
            <ul>
              <li>This is very interesting and we should try and make time
this, need 10’.</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>Still need to follow up with the organisers re. the vendor
presentations? Yes. Graeme will take this.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>HEP Use Cases
        <ul>
          <li>Speakers contacted, waiting for responses. No particular
concerns right now.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    <h3 id="tuesday">Tuesday</h3>
    <ul>
      <li>Data Management/Lakes
        <ul>
          <li>Getting meaningful requests for talks, so need to re-think
agenda to capture all the good ideas, but also have
discussion. To be sorted on Monday.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Frameworks and Infrastructure
        <ul>
          <li>2 confirmed talks, last one still to 100% pin down. So in
principle this is done.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Training (Parallel)
        <ul>
          <li>Will have 2 hours, 90 min talks, 30 min discussion. Foresee
a lot of contributions. Want to reach out to future
experiments too. 9 lightning talks of 10’. 8/9 have
confirmed. Will add this to Indico now.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>DPHEP (Parallel)
        <ul>
          <li>Follow up offline.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Workload Management
        <ul>
          <li>Torre: “still need to set talks/speakers for workload
management, f2f with Frank at CERN in a week”.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Analysis Facilities and Use Cases
        <ul>
          <li>Agenda almost final. Just a last speaker to confirm.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    <h3 id="wednesday">Wednesday</h3>
    <ul>
      <li>Programming for Concurrency and Co-Processors
        <ul>
          <li>3 or 4 speakers confirmed. Last one should be ok. Overlap
with simulation fixed.</li>
          <li>Did we find a second convenor yet (Vincenzo Innocente?).
Yes!</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Visualisation (Parallel)
        <ul>
          <li>From Ric:</li>
          <li>“The Naples agenda is growing:
            <ul>
              <li>“we will have updates from experiments (ATLAS, CMS so
far; hopefully, others as well)</li>
              <li>“plus, we will have discussions on potential technologies
for common tools, and experiences/best practices”</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Simulation
        <ul>
          <li>We have assigned 11 talks, some of which will be given
remotely via Vidyo.</li>
          <li>We have requested that our morning session be shifted to
late afternoon for the benefit of those connecting from
west coast USA. Hopefully we will be able to swap with
another session. Done (see general points).</li>
          <li>Live attendance is looking better, thanks to S2I2 support.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Security (Parallel)
        <ul>
          <li>David: “The topics for the security session are still the
same (albeit working on relative emphases), and we’re
discussing speakers (Dave Kelsey has agreed to speak to
some policy areas, and Hannah, Romain and Liviu have
offered to help prepare materials). At least some of us
(including Dave and Hannah) will be at the WISE meeting in
Abingdon next week and I’m hoping to continue discussions
there. I still have it in mind to keep 30 minutes for
discussion with 90 minutes for talks.”</li>
          <li>Did we find a second ‘live’ convenor yet? Could ask DK.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Performance and Cost Modeling (Parallel)
        <ul>
          <li>Looks in good shape.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Technical Discussion on Frameworks (Parallel)
        <ul>
          <li>Some ideas on topics - looking for speakers.</li>
          <li>Did we find a second convenor yet?</li>
          <li>Outcome from the ROOT I/O workshop could be used as input</li>
          <li>Remote participation from the US would help - pivot with P&amp;C
technical session.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Software Development (Parallel)
        <ul>
          <li>Preliminary idea of topics, need to work out the details.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Thursday
    <ul>
      <li>Closing Plenary
        <ul>
          <li>Pere and Liz met on Monday. They are proposing to organize
the session as a collection of summary talks (10’) given
by the chairpersons with the main messages for each of the
parallel sessions and finalize with a summary of summaries
(20’) as a conclusion of the workshop with a bit of time
for the final discussion and next steps.</li>
          <li>Some of the San Diego session summaries were very
successful, could use those as a model. We are in a
different phase now, which should make things easier.
Concentrate on concrete outcomes and on collaboration
across boundaries. What is the future for the HSF given
the outcomes of the sessions?</li>
          <li>We should have live notebooks for all of the sessions, which
will help with the summary of summaries. Can create
templates for all of the summaries, like in Annecy.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

<h1 id="cwp">CWP</h1>
<ul>
  <li>
    <h3 id="general-matters-and-roadmap">General Matters and Roadmap</h3>
    <ul>
      <li>Michel will give a presentation about lessons from the CWP and
future work at the <a href="https://indico.cern.ch/event/702775/">4th CERN Scientific Computing
Forum</a>, on
Friday 23 (tomorrow). <a href="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1AOkHQ70MGZHXa1PTq_dn1K1qGxjLmQZgfWG75wYJnqo/edit?usp=sharing">Draft
slides</a>
available for comments.</li>
      <li>Updated author list version (v3) is live on
<a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1712.06982">arXiv</a>.</li>
      <li>Discussions with the Editors of CSBS advanced - they cannot
change the author list after submission (Springer policy). So
a ‘pre-review’ is happening, based on arXiv v3. We can keep
the author list open until the Naples meeting.</li>
      <li>Noticed that the CWP inputs are now hidden behind many clicks,
so we should make sure they are easier to find. Graeme TODO.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    <h3 id="publication-strategy-for-individual-wg-papers">Publication strategy for Individual WG Papers</h3>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <h3 id="simulation">Simulation</h3>
        <ul>
          <li>Ready to go to arXiv now, with a finalised author list.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h3 id="software-trigger-and-event-reconstruction">Software Trigger and Event Reconstruction</h3>
        <ul>
          <li>Planning to upload both full doc and executive summary
tomorrow. Current versions are
<a href="https://github.com/davidlange6/recoCWP/blob/master/recoCWP.pdf">https://github.com/davidlange6/recoCWP/blob/master/recoCWP.pdf</a>
and
<a href="https://github.com/davidlange6/recoCWP/blob/master/recoCWPFull.pdf">https://github.com/davidlange6/recoCWP/blob/master/recoCWPFull.pdf</a>
so please make any further requests today.</li>
          <li>We asked all the authors to confirm their entry in our
author list and got quite a bit of feedback. We’ve fed
this back to the main CWP doc github where relevant.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h3 id="data-analysis-and-interpretation">Data Analysis and Interpretation</h3>
        <ul>
          <li>Current version (forked from in HSF/documents, syn’d with
origin repo)<br />
<a href="https://github.com/msneubauer/documents/blob/master/CWP/papers/HSF-CWP-2017-05_analysis/">https://github.com/msneubauer/documents/blob/master/CWP/papers/HSF-CWP-2017-05_analysis/</a></li>
          <li>Progress on text this past week, plan to have version
uploaded sometime next week</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

<h1 id="pyhep-workshop">PyHEP Workshop</h1>
<ul>
  <li>No major update (just 1 extra talk+speaker confirmed since last
week).</li>
</ul>

<h1 id="activity-updates">Activity updates</h1>
<ul>
  <li>Eduardo suggested that we should get Zenodo DOIs for the HSF technical
notes and also highlight a bit more the TNs (which are a bit hidden).
Feedback for this? Also worth for the CWP and CWP chapters?
    <ul>
      <li>Generally sounds useful for the DOIs. The website could generally do
with some reorganisation to reflect the more active areas and 
highlight them more.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

<h2 id="licensing">Licensing</h2>
<ul>
  <li>HepMCv2 is
<a href="https://gitlab.cern.ch/hepmc/HepMC/commit/c64061aa2245cd5605306ff292d2ef7a679f063c">relicenced</a>
as LGPL2.1+. Need to also do HepMC3 and follow up with main
authors.</li>
  <li>Should follow up with FastJet at some point.</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="training">Training</h2>
<ul>
  <li>No news.</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="packaging">Packaging</h2>
<ul>
  <li>Meeting
<a href="https://indico.cern.ch/event/704402/">yesterday</a>
focused on experiences with aliBuild and the lessons learned. Next
meeting in <a href="https://indico.cern.ch/event/708110/">2 weeks
time</a> (7 March)
will discuss best use of and feature development in Spack and
using the test stack for tool comparison.</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="gsoc">GSoC</h2>
<ul>
  <li>Progressing well, a lot of proposals and applications received.</li>
  <li>We have many projects but we need to decide how to decide the
prioritization of the project: should not be left to the GSoC
coordinators to decide which projects are selected if Google is
funding less students than the total number who applied.</li>
  <li>Student numbers are increasing - perhaps we will hit a limit. Do we
need 2 organizations, one on each side of the Atlantic? Not
sure… To be rediscussed later, after we know the numbers from
this year.</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="visualisation">Visualisation</h2>
<p>News from Riccardo Maria Bianchi:</p>
<ul>
  <li>As announced at last week's meeting, we started an exploratory
CMS-ATLAS joint project with the Computing Science department of
the University of Lubjana, to explore possibilities offered from
advanced visualization techniques used in other fields, such in
Medicine.</li>
  <li>There is a <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vR9C2SERoXIQ8Qrj_sFC1RxnLJAoN36Bdt7jQ6l9Jb_Q_DEf6SklfQ7PMY9mfaZI0YFzmklQJqSaCch/pub">first
draft</a>
of the project. More content and background has to be added.
    <ul>
      <li>This is an attempt at exploring new potential technologies for
common tools, which could be shared among the experiments. It
is a follow-up from what we stated and proposed in the
Visualization CWP.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Of course, all interested people are more than welcome to join!</li>
</ul>

<h1 id="aob">AOB</h1>
<ul>
  <li>EP R&amp;D Software Group will have its second session of Lightning
Talks on <a href="https://indico.cern.ch/event/702570/">Monday
26</a>.</li>
  <li>Should poll for dates to be entered in the community calendar -
Benedikt to follow up.</li>
  <li>Postal addresses for institutes for, e.g., CHEP - it would be useful
to have this.
    <ul>
      <li>Pete volunteered to help collate some of these based of Gordon Watt’s
ACAT lists.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>



<hr>

<div class="PageNavigation">

  <!-- Note that page sorting is reverse time ordered, so "next" refers to the previous
       meeting in time and "previous" to the next one -->
  
   <p class="alignleft"><a href="/organization/2018/02/21/packaging.html">&nbsp;&#8592; HSF Packaging Group Meeting #19, February 21, 2018</a></p>
  

  
    <p class="alignright"><a href="/organization/2018/03/01/startup.html">HSF Weekly Meeting #128, 1 March, 2018 &#8594;&nbsp;</a></p>
  

</div>

<div style="clear: both;"></div>


<br><br>
<div class="footer fixed-bottom">
Thanks to <a href="https://pages.github.com/">GitHub Pages</a>, <a href="http://jekyllrb.com/">Jekyll</a> and <a href="http://getbootstrap.com/">Bootstrap</a>
</div>

</div> <!-- container -->


<!-- Google Analytics -->

<!-- Google Analytics end -->

<script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-2.1.4.min.js"></script>
<script src="https://maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/3.3.4/js/bootstrap.min.js"></script>
</body>
</html>
