---
title: HSF workshop on the HEP analysis ecosystem, Amsterdam, May 22-24 2017
author: Torre Wenaus
layout: event
startdate: 2017-05-22
---

Over the past 20 years the HEP community has developed and gravitated around an
analysis ecosystem centered on ROOT. ROOT and its ecosystem both dominate HEP
analysis and impact the full event processing chain, providing foundation
libraries, I/O services etc. that have prevalence in the field.

The analysis tools landscape is however evolving in ways that can have a durable
impact on the analysis ecosystem and a strong influence on the analysis and core
software landscape a decade from now, a timescale currently in an intensive
planning round with the HEP Software Foundation (HSF) Community White Paper
process. Data intensive analysis is growing in importance in other sciences and
in the wider world. Powerful tools and new development initiatives, both within
our field and in the wider open source community, have emerged. Creative
developers have an ever more powerful open source toolkit available and are
applying it towards innovations that leverage both open source and the ROOT
ecosystem. ROOT itself is approaching a major re-engineering with ROOT 7,
leveraging the powerful evolution of C++, with a major overhaul in its
interfaces as seen both by its users and by satellite tools in the ROOT
ecosystem.

With these considerations we are organizing this open HEP software community
workshop convened by the HSF to examine the analysis ecosystem, currently and in
the future with a 5-10 year view. The workshop will be something of a retreat
aimed at an inclusive building of consensus among developers, users, projects
and their supporters in the HEP analysis ecosystem.

See the [indico page](https://indico.cern.ch/event/613842/).
