---
title:  PyHEP 2025 "Python in HEP" Workshop, CERN, October 27-30, 2025
author: Ianna Osborne
layout: event
startdate: 2025-10-27
---

We are pleased to announce the **"PyHEP 2025 Users Workshop"** workshop organised by the HSF.
The PyHEP, "Python in HEP", workshops aim to provide an environment
to discuss and promote the usage of Python in the HEP community at large.
**PyHEP 2025 Users Workshop** will be a hybrid event taking place on October 27–30 at CERN.

Registration and abstract submission are currently open via https://indico.cern.ch/e/PyHEP2025. There are no registration fees and no limit on the number of online participants.
Important: The deadline for both registration and abstract submission is just three days away — October 15.

The agenda will include:

  • Standard talks (30’) for presenting new results or libraries

  • Long talks (40–50’) offering pedagogical introductions to techniques

  • Lightning talks (10’) to promote packages and tools still in development

We’re also excited to feature a tutorial by Nvidia on Python CUDA-cccl, offering a hands-on look at GPU programming and performance optimization in Python.

Sessions will be held in the afternoons (Central European Time), following the successful format of previous years to accommodate participants across time zones.

More details are available on the Indico page and the [PyHEP homepage](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/activities/pyhep.html).

You’re warmly invited to join the PyHEP Gitter channel and/or the HSF forum to stay connected with the community.

For any questions, reach us directly at pyhep2025-organisation@cern.ch.

The workshop will be a forum for the participants and the community at large
to discuss developments of Python packages and tools, exchange experiences,
and steer where the community needs and wants to go.
There will be ample time for discussion.
