---
title: "Startup Team Minutes #27"
layout: default
---

# HEP Software Foundation Startup Team Meeting notes Jun 15 2015

## Agenda

- General items
  - Startup meeting timeslot
- Activities, working group updates
  - Packaging
  - Training
  - Licensing
 - Technical notes
 - others: SW projects, Communication and KB, development tools/services
- Agenda for iFB June 24th (see https://indico.cern.ch/event/400188/)
- Next workshop
- AoB


## Participants

Present: Andrea, Dario, Liz, Michel, Torre

## General items

Meeting time slot: send a reminder for the [Doodle](http://doodle.com/snsv8tbvrr2gffuk) with an explicit subject!

* Add 4 pm CEST slot
* Remind people to answer additional slots


## Activities and working groups

### Packaging

Meeting last week: interest by Brett and Jim after Pere's presentation of LCG CMake

* This week: CMS
* Next week: FNAL accelerator team
  * Specific requirements compared to traditional HEP: HPC, openMP... requirements to build on the machine where the app is executed
* Liz preparing minutes of the last 2 meetings but no time yet to clean them up

Liz at CERN next week: will prepare report for iFB with Benedikt


### Training

Next meeting: next Wednesday

* art tutoring material will be presented by FNAL

Ability to execute code as part of tutorial: Dario will discuss with Pere and see if it is worth starting a discussion in the forum to evaluate the
interest for a common work in HSF around this kind of technology

* iPython notebook looks as one promising (even though partial) solution

### Licensing

2 sides in the licensing debate: GPL/LGPL (copyleft) and permissive (Apache2)

* Main input is currently from CERN
* Would be good to have more US input: they tend to be more on the "as permissive as possible"
  * Would be good it there was some existing documents in the US labs
  * Liz: Apache2 provides more obligations to notify modifications than BSD

Important that the TN acknoledges these 2 sides to help with future discussion and may be progress.


### Technical Notes

Andrews absent. Will ping him...

### Software projects

Gaudi development meeting last week: HSF mentioned a lot!


### Communication and knowledge base

Andrea: no time yet to look at knowledge base

Newsletter: make the first issue after the next iFB meeting, using the material produced

Hackaton: should HSF take the initiative of such events

* People coming together during one or 2 days to tackle one particular challenge

### Development tools and services

No progress


## iFB meeting (June 24th)

Michel: should not the agenda be a summary report and a more detailed report for a few specific activities?

* Liz: tend to agree
* Torre + Andrea: good to have a report on each activity to show the real progress


## Next workshop

Discuss at iFB.

## AOB

Next meeting: next week, usual time

* **Don't forget to fill the Doodle poll for a new time slot**
