---
title: "Startup Team Minutes #39"
layout: default
---

# HEP Software Foundation Startup Team Meeting notes Nov 19 2015

[Indico Agenda](https://indico.cern.ch/event/463109/)

Present: Dario, Liz, Michel

Apologies: Pere, Torre, Benedikt, Andrea

## News and General updates

Liz ok with announcement proposed for the new web site and newsletter
* She will polish the english before Michel send it!


## Packaging

Meeting yesterday: discussion on `Conda`, a build/packaging tool reviewed as part of the ongoing effort in the WG (`homebrew`, `Nix`...)
* At the heart of `Anaconda` Python distribution
* Seems to closer to what we need that previously reviewed ones
* Still a small community but developers keen to add features we may need: exact details to be discussed still

## Training

Mail sent to the mailing list to summarize what happened in the last month, i.e. the setup of the WikiToLearn platform for HSF use.
* WikiToLearn is just a foundation tool, now we need to start the real work with online tutorials, schools...
* Preliminary contacts with some possible contributors but they request some time to check their materials or they want to be reassured that their material will not be stolen or overwritten
* No feedback received yet to the email

Activity still in progress in reusing the ability to run interactive sessions from the web, particularly in ROOT
* An implementation plan already discussed with several steps a few weeks ago

## Licensing

Michel sent an email with the last draft of the TN addressing the remaining issues
* Minor change still needed in examples to provide non CERN example (sent by Liz)
* Proposal not to include the "decision graphics' if not ready: keep it for a further release of the TN, avoid to delay it longer
* Urgently need feedback: **Silence is consent**

## Software knowledge base and communication

Dario played with the new KB, adding different kinds of information: no major problem seen, big improvement on previous version!

New web site: good!


## Logo Contest

Site ready. How do we announce it?
* What is the deadline for logo submission?
* When is the vote taking place?

## AOB

Next meeting: next week, usual time

