---
title: "Startup Team Minutes #42"
layout: default
---

# HEP Software Foundation Startup Team Meeting notes Jan 21 2016

[Indico Agenda](https://indico.cern.ch/event/487072/)

Present: Andrea, Andrew, Benedikt, Dario, Liz, Michel

Apologies from: Pere, Torre

## News and general updates
- 2nd conditions data meeting between ATLAS/CMS/Belle-II took place yesterday
 ( [Indico Agenda](https://indico.cern.ch/event/483692/) ). All parties seem in
 evaluation stage of new technologies/approaches. Strong attendance and motivation
 to follow up on the newly created mailing list. Andrea makes a remark about
 that we need to advertise it. More information to add to the website.

## Technical Notes
- New technical note on results of WLCG MJF Task Force almost finished. Once
final authorlist is defined, it will become official.
- Benedikt suggests to ask Tim Smith whether he wants to give feedback to the
license TN. If not, the note is considered final.

## Training
- Discussing again the problem of finding volunteers to contribute material.
- Dario contacted people from the SFT group. Needs a follow up with Pere.
- Benedikt contacted a few people from CMS and the German community.
- Announcements of training activities are not distributed properly.
Should the HSF
try to be more active in distributing information?
- Dario would like to step-down once a successor is found.

## Packaging
- Next meeting on Feb 10. about the HPC packaging tool Spack [indico agenda](https://indico.cern.ch/event/484006/).
- Possible further contribution about easybuild. There has been an unanswered
post about it on the packaging WG list. Liz follows up that there will be an answer by other FNAL experts.

## Logo Contest
- No feedback. Will extend the deadline to date-of-workshop minus one month and announce it again.

## Newsletter
- No interesting items to post.

## Next HSF workshop
- Michel volunteered to look into organizing the workshop in Paris. Aiming at a date early May. Will send an email with possible dates soon.

## WLCG Workshop Feb 2016
- There is a session about software. Not yet clear what its contents will be.
John and Benedikt will talk again with Ian Bird about this. An updated version of
the last HSF presentation could be a starting point for our contribution.

## New meeting date
- Liz set up a doodle poll to the general HSF forum. About 10 replies. She will wait until Monday and then we will decide on the new slot.

## AOB
- [2nd Common Track Reconstruction Forum](https://indico.cern.ch/event/486488/)
on Jan 29. As preparation for the session at the Connecting the Dots in Vienna.
