---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #57, May 26 2016"
layout: default
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #57, May 26 2016

### Contents
{:.no_toc}

* auto-gen TOC:
{:toc}

#### *Present*: Benedikt Hegner, Pere Mato, David Lange, Michel Jouvin, Andrea Valassi, Pete Elmer, 

## News, general matters

### Newsletter

-   As agreed previously, newsletter contents should be sent inline in the announcement mail (copy/paste of the web page should work).

## Current Topics

### Report of the LHCC Meeting(s)

-   Pete: Saw Christinel after the meeting yesterday. Talk to the chair about HSF as an umbrella organization. Few slides in the close session. Mentioned the roadmap document. 2019 is the computing TDR. Well in line to the this objective. Will go in the LHCC minutes with a positive statement about HSF. Elsen is very interested. CERN should take the lead in the process. The big vision is still needed for HL-LHC, but it is fine to start working in the good direction.

-   Informal discussions. ICFA study group as a possibility to give an official mandate for the roadmap work. Next ICFA meeting during ICHEP (August): could be doable if we want to start the process in Fall. The objective could be to request an official study group.

-   Benedikt agrees with the main messages. What will be useful is to have an official endorsement from experiments.

-   Andrea mentions the WLCG-OB presentation of Pete (June 3). This is also an opportunity to get the support from ‘managers’ and national representatives.

-   Summary: the process is just starting and seems positive so far.

## Activity updates

### Packaging

-   NTR this week. Spack meeting cancelled last week.

### StackExchange

-   Discussion with Tim Smith (in charge of collaborative tools @CERN) to eventually setup a global instance @CERN

-   Tim’s team also working on a chat service that could partially overlap/complement WikiToLearn: need to get in touch

### Licensing

-   CERN restarting some work around it (T. Smith involved): goal is to do evangelization around the importance of licensing and exit the “do it yourself” current mode.

### Projects

-   Michel still wants to contact few people to concretise. Pere will contact Mike.

### Training

-   Continued the thread with IceCube.

## AOB

- None  

.
