---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #52, Apr 14 2016"
layout: default
---

# HSF Weekly #52 14/04/16

[Indico Agenda](https://indico.cern.ch/event/521323/)

Present: 

## News, general matters


Missed last time: What is the relation between Software R&D Forum, formerly Concurrency Forum, and HSF? Reconstitution of Concurrency Forum into Software R&D forum and its first meeting was announced with no reference to HSF.

## May HSF workshop program

- [Workshop page](https://indico.cern.ch/event/496146/)
- [Timetable](https://indico.cern.ch/event/496146/other-view?view=standard)
- [doodle poll](http://doodle.com/poll/8hpxredhnci2i8xh)

Updates on the program, progress in planning the sessions...

## GeantV review

Discussion with the background of John's message...


        Hi Pere and Torre,

        I think I have already mentioned to you before that I have agreed with Federico Carminati and Daniel Elvira that we should organise a review of the Geant V project some time this year. I believe its important that R&D projects are held accountable for the resources they consume, so its appropriate to make a check of progress so far to see if this project is on course to deliver on its goals. I hope that the review will also serve to make the project more visible and possibly attract more collaborators. 

        The GeantV project has already had ~24 months to demonstrate that by re-engineering the particle transport and other components, such as geometry, advantage can be taken of new cpu architectures to yield factors of improvement in performance. So the idea is to hold a ‘proof of principle’ review that can convince our community that there are no major showstoppers in delivering significant improvements in performance for realistic simulations i.e. simulations of complex events in a complex detector like CMS or ATLAS.

        The idea would be to make the review open to whoever is interested to attend and to form the review team from external independent experts.  Clearly the potential clients of Geant need to be involved, as well as experts on improving software performance; in other words physicists with some interest in and knowledge of simulation, as well as core software developers with expertise in concurrent programming. The outcome would be a report containing recommendations. I imagine management and funding agencies would support the idea of a review, and may well be interested in attending it or at least reading the review report.

        I hope that the HSF can take the lead in organising the review, helping to ensure that it is seen as open, independent and that it is given the maximum visibility. If you agree with this, I would be grateful if you could put this on the agenda of a Startup Team meeting in the near future so that first steps can be taken to get the ball rolling. We were thinking that the period just after the summer, and possibly before CHEP could be an ideal time to organise it providing there is a week in the calendar which doesn’t conflict with other major events.

        I am happy to discuss at any time and in any forum, but would prefer to leave it to you to take this forward as you see best.

        many thanks,

        John

## AOB

