---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #64, July 21, 2016"
layout: default
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #64, July 21, 2016

### Contents
{:.no_toc}

* auto-gen TOC:
{:toc}

#### *Present*: Dario Menasce, Michel Jouvin, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, Ben Morgan, Pere Mato, Guilherme Amadio, Andrea Valassi, Torre Wenaus, Benedikt Hegner

## News, general matters

-   The present slot seems OK, we are getting a good turnout, won’t try to find a new slot.

## Current Topics.

### CWP

-   Comments on the draft charge were passed to Ian by Pere and Pete. Pete had a discussion with Openlab and Maria proposed a small change to mention Openlab as one of the involved parties.

-   Andrea: WLCG MB next week, CWP will come up, maybe clarify there whether Ian foresees a further revision. Expect a version will be stamped as WLCG approved. Andrea, Benedikt, Torre… will be there in the MB.

-   We need to fix the dates for the pre-meetings in September: 19 to 21 September are free of meetings in the calendar… but Pere absent 19-20. 21-22 is LHCC. 22-23/9: HPC meeting @FNAL. Whole week: coding sprint for GEANTV but can probably accommodate a couple of free hours during some days.

-   Likely scenario: two afternoons beginning at ~3pm or 4pm for 2-3 hours

-   **Propose to find two days in the Wed 21-Fri 23 window that week.**

#### Pre-CHEP Sunday meeting

-   **Write now a brief announcement, elaborate on it after the Sep meeting.**

## Activity updates

### Training

-   No news this week.

-   Dario wants to add categories to the SW&C KB but doesn’t know how to do it (confusion with HSF web site about Jekyll use). To be followed offline.

### Packaging

-   Liz: Packaging meeting last week. ANL’s ALCF supercomputer facility has launched an effort to get Spack working there. So spack is now broadening beyond the LLNL supercomputers where it originated.

-   ATLAS starting an effort to see how to improve version management of generators. Many dependencies to manage in last generations of generators (still remains limited compared to ATLAS or CMS SW stack). May be interesting to connect to the HSF packaging effort.

-   Proposal to discuss Portage by Guilherme: no date settled yet, to be done after the summer break. Guilherme will send an email description to the WG about Portage.

### Licencing

-   GEANTV is trying to decide a license and planning to use Apache2 license: contacted FNAL do discuss what was acceptable.

-   ATLAS facing FastJet GPL license threatening to contaminate software base with GPL when ATLAS wants Apache.

-   CMS is trying to make external everything that is viral. About 90% there. None in the core of the reco or similarly central.

-   Something to pursue (on the list?) for a better understanding here in HSF.

### Common Tracking Forum

-   Another meeting on seeding and tracking is being prepared. The next opportunity is end of August or September.

### GeantV Review

-   We set the dates and have accumulated some names of potential reviewers. **More names welcome if they come very soon**. Need to decide on the reviewers to ask very soon. Pere and Torre will go over the list. **We should be asking people within the next week or so.**

-   Location: CERN

-   Next thing will be writing a charge. HSF as organizer of the review presumably sets the charge, in consultation with all parties and in an open way. (Much of the text of the ultimate charge is probably already there in the materials in these minutes previously.)

## AOB

-   Benedikt pointed out that no newsletter has been released for a long time. The next topic should be the CWP and to use it to announce the meetings and process.

    -   **Do this once we have a CWP charge stamped as OK, next week.**

-   Michel will meet IN2P3 management to discuss possible support for the SW&C journal initiative.

-   [Torre: very nice meeting notes workflow Michel, thank you!]


