---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #68, September 8, 2016"
layout: default
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #68, September 8, 2016

#### *Present*: Torre, Dario, Liz, Daniel, Michel, Andrew

## News, general matters

## Current Topics.

### GeantV review

-   Status at Fermilab. Lalli still not convinced. She will not let Fermilab participate. Warned of possible loss of funding.

-   What about Daniel’s proposal of having the review calling it differently? Was basically agreed by Lalli…

    -   Torre proposes that GeantV project contacts HSF explaining the changes in situation and the proposed new initiative with the former assembled review committee…

    -   Torre sees Lalli’s position as a very negative interference with peer-review processes which are one goal of HSF. We expect/hope to have such similar requests in the future and it’s a problem if DOE is opposing it every time.

    -   Dario/Torre: would prefer that we continue to call it a Technical Review, with the right of GeantV to say that this is not what they want and express what they want.

    -   David: the problem may be the fact that the review (and its outcome) is public. DOE accepted review of the projects it funded in the past, not necessarily led by DOE, but they were not public.

    -   Everybody agrees that we need to find a way forwards and that we need to have this first of many community events on different topics. With the hope that it will make more clear what we want to achieve and what these events are and what they are not.

    -   Would be good to sort out this issue by end of next week, despite next weekly meeting is probably not a convenient slot for discussing with the GeantV team (conflicting meetings)

-   Concrete plans: agenda, chair, mailing to review committee, …

-   

### CWP

-   Pete announced almost-firm dates of Monday 23 to Thursday 26 January, posted on calendar (location is San Diego)

    -   US ATLAS/US CMS agency review the same week, at UC Irvine. Can we coordinate them? ATLAS conflict is bad because ATLAS is first half of the week

-   Sep 22-23 CWP planning meeting

    -   Need to contact the computing coordinators & Ian, start serious organization

    -   **Now more than urgent**. Only one week left before the planning meeting. Need to organize something in the next few days.

    -   All SW coordinators now aware of the date of the planning meeting…

## Activity updates

### Packaging

-   

### Licensing

ACTS project interested by guidelines/recommendations from HSF

-   Currently using Mozilla Public License but ready to rediscuss this choice.

-   Project started by ATLAS people but the goal is to build a generic tracking framework usable by others (or for R&D)

## AOB

-   
