---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #102, August 3, 2017"
layout: default
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #102, August 3, 2017

#### *Present*: Daniel Elvira, Dario Menasce, Pere Mato Vila, Graeme Stewart, Benedikt Hegner, Torre Wenaus, Mark Neubauer, Elizabeth Sexton-Kennedy, Patricia Mendez, David Lange, John Harvey


## News, general matters

- EIC Software Consortium were in touch via Torre. They would like to make a presentation on their software projects to HSF (see their [last workshop](https://www.jlab.org/indico/event/213/)).
  - What is the best way to do this? Semi-regular general HSF meetings should be revived in September (Wednesday's 17h seems ok or use the Startup Thursday slot).
- The SFT group has been invited to present the result of the CWP and next steps to the Scientific Computing Forum (SCF) established earlier this year by Eckhard Elsen. The meeting will take place on October 27th.
- New job at CERN to increase the effort in ROOT development. Details at https://jobs.web.cern.ch/job/12661.

## CWP

-   #### Simulation

    - Executive summary was sent to the experiments yesterday (computing coordinators and simulation contacts). In good shape from the group. 2 weeks for extended people to contribute. Final convergence soon after 16 August.
    - Should there be a glossary? Maybe an editorial team decision. Should be looked by document readers - please note any areas where jargon needs defined.

-   #### MachineLearning

    -   From Sergei: "We are in final stages of review editing, filling in missing pieces like references etc. There are a couple missing pieces which we hope to get completed by the end of the week.”

-   #### Software Development

    -   Document very close to conclusion, but still lacking a little in Agile section and case studies. Some feedback from reviewers to work on (thanks!). It’s proving hard to make progress over the summer months (holidays then consequent work backlogs…). We should close by *force majeure* 17 August.

-   #### Software Trigger and Event Reconstruction

    -   On track to finish this week. Will then circulate and work on a summary document.

-   #### Data Access, Organisation and Management

    -   Liz has been making editorial comments and asking others to help (Andrew Norman, from DUNE). Shaping up well.

-   #### Data and Software Preservation

    -   No news.  There was a [concurrent meeting](https://indico.cern.ch/event/657351) on data preservation happening


-   #### Data Analysis and Interpretation

    -   Mark talked with Oli. Needs some work still - hopefully progress next week.

-   #### Workflow and Resource Management

    -   Kaushik is hoping to start on this in the next week.

-   #### Visualization

    -   In pretty good shape - needs some editorial input. Still writing but hope to have a draft for broader reading this week.

-   #### Event/Data Processing Frameworks

    -   Liz and Benedikt have been improving some points. Starting to flesh out the roadmap and the needs to be presented to be consensual.

-   #### Careers, Staffing and Training

    -  Dario has been editing. Contacting others, but not getting responses right now (holidays). Would need another editorial review to polish. John Harvey offers help (generally).

-   #### Computing Model

    -   Summer lull, will need a blitz when people come back. Probably this will mean September. Liz and Torre think some material could be moved to other documents.
    
-   #### Conditions Access

    - Graeme to talk to Paul. *Post Meeting Update:* Paul reports that the document is ready for review now.

-   #### Next Steps

    - Pete Elmer was pulling out names - try to identify people even if it’s a few weeks before work will begin.

## Activity updates

### Training

- WikiToLearn is getting input from the GridKA school people, ([website](https://en.wikitolearn.org/GridKa)). 
- John H: New Springer journal has some interesting papers in the pipeline. If you know any interesting topics we can invite contributions (ideas: Fred James - PRNGs; Rene Brun - Data Analysis; SWAN and notebooks; Machine learning). Editors would like to have early contributions that describe concepts.


## AOB

- Analysis ecosystem report should be finalised. Convert to PDF and make this a technical note.
- We need a newsletter - analysis workshop and CWP are good topics.



