---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #117, November 16, 2017"
layout: default
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #117, November 16, 2017

### *Present/Contributors*: Daniel Elvira, Graeme Stewart, David Lange, Pere Mato, Michel Jouvin, Eduardo Rodrigues, John Harvey, Liz Sexton-Kennedy

News, general matters
=====================

-   ### HSF/WLCG Workshop
    -   Nothing new on draft agenda. Will be done after CWP Draft 2.

CWP
===

-   ### General Matters and Editorial Board
    -   No EB meeting yet this week: usual Wednesday slot not
        convenient, next meeting on [Friday](https://indico.cern.ch/event/681187/) (tomorrow).
    -   EB Core Team (alias "ghost writers") has been extended: Benedikt
        Hegner, David Lange and Eduardo Rodrigues joined. An email
        created to reach the whole team easily:
        [hsf-cwp-ghost-writers@googlegroups.com](mailto:hsf-cwp-ghost-writers@googlegroups.com).
    -   Draft 2 release still planned on Friday evening/night and work
        well on track (still a Google Docs document). Sections will be
        reordered as
        [agreed](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ot00teRw5v7bnJx3vOA2sos7fsGmto81Nx72SsouA2I/edit?pli=1)
        before the release (A Google Docs oddity blocks while there are pending
        suggestions).
    -   A lot of work done since the last meeting: most comments
        received on draft 1 now addressed. Extensive glossary added
        which should help addressing various audiences without
        stretching out the main text. Reference list now much more
        complete, even if the formatting will be done only in the
        final version, after moving to LaTeX (Google Docs is very weak
        for this kind of thing, despite its many advantages for the
        collaborative commenting/editing).
    -   Still work to be done on the conclusion: planned during the
        remaining day. Nothing major, mainly to make things sharper.
    -   Assessing/Mentioning the impact of each roadmap item, as
        suggested by Mike, has not yet been done. Probably too much
        work for draft 2.
    -   [Signatories](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tBXwlNnQsxxZA3gVS1_KSpa8wRXGyk250EIsJwJ2T34/edit?pli=1#):
        good progress, 53 signatories today. Very much LHC, despite a
        couple who mentioned Belle II. All LHC experiments computing
        coordinators have endorsed.
    -   Andrea Valassi will give a CWP talk to LHCb next week.

-   ### Simulation
    -   CWP section: ready for draft 2 baring some small additions from
        Daniel.

-   ### Machine Learning
    -   CWP section: still a lot of work to do, currently in progress,
        unfortunately not many help from the WG conveners. Eduardo is
        working on it.

-   ### Software Development
    -   CWP section: in good shape, almost ready for draft 2.

-   ### Software Trigger and Event Reconstruction
    -   CWP section: ready for draft 2.

-   ### Data Organisation, Management and Access
    -   CWP section: in good shape, still a few (not always trivial)
        comments to address. Would be good to have DUNE figures if
        any. Ask Rob K if there are any estimates.

-   ### Data and Software Preservation
    -   CWP section: waiting input from Jakob (promised today) to make
        the R&D part about tools, in particular CVMFS usage in this
        context, stronger.

-   ### Data Analysis and Interpretation
    -   CWP section: not yet final, after comments a major
        rewrite/restructure in progress.

-   ### Workflow and Resource Management
    -   Did not make it for the global CWP. Verifying that main items
        from the current WG paper are covered in other sections
        (mainly Facilities and Distributed Computing and Data
        Processing Frameworks).

-   ### Visualization
    -   CWP section: in good shape, not many comments received and
        experts contacted happy with it

-   ### Event/Data Processing Frameworks
    -   CWP section: ready for draft 2 (roadmap subsection significantly
        reworded, hopefully with the same contents)

-   ### Careers, Staffing and Training
    -   CWP section: ready for draft 2. Careers subsection (the weak
        part in draft 1) now well developed. Feedback requested from Dario
        and Dan today.

-   ### Facilities and Distributed Computing
    -   CWP section: being finalized, nothing major left

-   ### Conditions Access
    -   CWP section: ready for draft 2. Received a positive feedback
        with a few comments (addressed) from WG conveners

-   ### Generators
    -   CWP section: good progress! Received 
        [input from MCnet](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OPV7bpiIY0OyI8ef1nKDQjs2DmHn9PDSeLNm_DX7ZSM/edit?usp=sharing).
        Graeme did a [first draft](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pnvmeGrsoZTSWygyRr4Zp5JwZaN0nFOQ1Z9PVejoLgo/edit?usp=sharing)
        at the beginning of the week and received many comments from
        the generators community. Funding priority problems are being
        highlighted as well as technical issues. Should now be
        converging to a draft that will go into the Roadmap tomorrow.

-   ### Security
    -   CWP section: ready for draft 2, thanks to the work done by
        Romain Wartel and Hannah Short on a very short timescale.

-   ### Submission of WG papers to ArXiv
    -   *Will talk to the EB about this, but likely we will delegate
        this to WG convenors.*
    -   Detector Simulation: needs a final walkthrough (\~1 day), to
        reflect changes made to the CWP. Need to finalise author list.
    -   Physics Generators:
    -   Software Trigger and Event Reconstruction:
    -   Data Analysis and Interpretation:
    -   Conditions Data:
    -   Machine Learning:
    -   Data flow processing framework:
    -   Visualisation:
    -   Machine Learning:
    -   Facilities and Distributed Computing:
    -   Data Organisation Management and Access:
    -   Security:
    -   Software Development, Deployment, Validation and Verification:
        only references left to do, pending for weeks :-(

Activity updates
================

Licensing
---------
-   Graeme continuing to gently push HepMC authors.

Training
--------
-   No updates.

Packaging
---------
-   Group met yesterday:
    [https://indico.cern.ch/event/678307/](https://indico.cern.ch/event/678307/)
    -   Discussion on the test stack and on defining use cases better.
-   [Next meeting](https://indico.cern.ch/event/681894/) in 2 weeks time, 29 November.

AOB
===

-   PyHEP
    -   Graeme informed the CHEP LOC of our plans for a 1.5 day workshop
        on PyHEP, followed by an HSF plenary session

-   ATLAS Documentation Workshop
    -   ATLAS are holding a workshop on documentation at their next S&C
        week (11 Dec).
        -   "The documentation toolset (both narrative and code doc) has
            been growing rapidly in the open source world. We want the
            workshop to help identify promising directions and tools
            to pursue, within the context of preserving adequate
            stability, continuity and preservation of investment in
            the existing documentation."
    -   They would like to hear about interesting documentation ideas
        from any other experiments.
    -   Graeme will collect HSF inputs and pass them on, please send
        interesting things.

-   CHEP
    -   John suggested that an HSF plenary talk would be very useful
        (this is decided by the IAC).
    -   We might also ask for a summary of PyHEP.
    -   Call for abstracts is out - HSF activity areas should consider
        submitting abstracts.
        -   Make sure you coordinate with your group to avoid
            misunderstandings.
    -   Forward call for abstracts to announcement list.
