---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #120, December 14, 2017"
layout: default
---

### *Present/Contributors*: Graeme Stewart, Benedikt Hegner, David Lange, Michel Jouvin, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, John Harvey

### News, general matters

-   ### HSF/WLCG Workshop

    -   Meeting of Benedikt, Graeme, Ian Collier and Michel last
        Tuesday: agreed to send a new email on Monday at the latest.
    -   Working with local organizers to get logistical information
        added to the website before Monday.
    -   Decided to postpone opening the registration until mid-January to
        get a chance to obtain some sponsorship and lower a
        bit the registration fees (currently 300€ for early bird until
        mid Feb; 340€ after early bird, but before the workshop; 380€
        at the workshop).
    -   Sorting out room availability, but probably no showstopper,
        either on Monday morning (will start at 10 am but
        registration will open before that) or on Thursday (the plan is
        that the 150 seat room will be extended by Vidyo in a smaller
        room if needed).
    -   Liz: Hotel information is very important for US Lab people.
        Fallback would be for us to gather information ourselves and
        pass it on in the announcement next week.
    -   First discussions about conveners was had.

CWP
===

-   ### General Matters and Editorial Board

    -   Overall status: chasing last (mostly formatting) details in the
        final version. Release still scheduled for Friday 15
        (tomorrow) evening/night.
    -   Switch to LaTeX done yesterday for the final pretty formatting.
        -   Graeme is writing a python script that processes the
            signatories list into a LaTeX format.
    -   Content is final: conclusion significantly reworded to express a
        stronger message, in particular regarding the need for more
        convergence between experiments in the future. Good feedback
        on the readability received from several sources.
    -   EB meeting yesterday: not so well attended, but several offline
        messages. Everybody happy with the work done so far, no
        suggestion that we should delay the release. Main decision: all
        the signers will appear as authors of the CWP, no distinction
        between different classes of authors. Everybody agreed that it
        was more inline with the spirit of a **community** white
        paper.
    -   Signatories: 249 today. +40 in the last 24h! But still 5 EB
        members missing and some of the key CERN/SFT people.
    -   John is reading through now and marking up changes, Graeme will
        then take those changes and do a final read through tomorrow.
    -   Benedikt noted that the approved experiments in China have
        rather small resource needs. Try to find a way to mention
        them.

-   No updates on individual CWP papers this week.

Activity updates
================

Licensing
---------

-   ATLAS have been considering their licensing situation - discussion at ICB this week.

Training
--------

-   Nothing to report.

Packaging
---------

-   Meeting [yesterday](https://indico.cern.ch/event/684972/) that covered Portage and CVMFS GraphDriver plugin.
-   CHEP abstract in preparation which can [be commented on](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1f2NLMOIzvG6Tsvq821eJjWKNtJRb_McpVArUVpOHSbs/edit?usp=sharing).
-   Next meeting [17 January](https://indico.cern.ch/event/688097/).

AOB
===

-   Possibility of having a regional HSF meeting in Asia next year, IHEP
    could host it.

    