---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #92, May 11, 2017"
layout: default
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #92, May 11, 2017

#### *Present*: Benedikt Hegner, Dario Menasce, Pere Mato, David Lange, Attila Krasznahorkay, Andrea Valassi, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, Philippe Canal, Fons Rademakers, Sebastien Binet, Michel Jouvin, 

## News, general matters

-   Benedikt made a presentation to the LHCC reviewers with the status of HSF. Ian Bird mentioned the progress of CWP as well. They want to see the results. Well received that was some activity, he also mentioned the GSOC.

## Special topic: HEP analysis ecosystem workshop agenda

-   Draft agenda [*http://indico.cern.ch/event/613842/timetable/*](http://indico.cern.ch/event/613842/timetable/)

-   Agenda outline [*googledoc*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1F2v4W5X216sXALToBTT-jT0fFkaIQhld2cqDnSqdv-I/edit?usp=sharing)

-   -   Today’s … session

    -   Difficulty to find somebody from ATLAS to report on the analysis model. Apparently an impossible task. Perhaps use plan “C” and Graeme present what ATLAS is doing. The survey got more than 200 answers from ATLAS.

    -   All the other talks are now covered by speakers. The indico agenda will be filled today or tomorrow.

    -   Liz: grandparent talk? Tom Le Compte? Perhaps somebody from the HSF startup team, or use the slot for a discussion. On what topic? Perhaps more on a history of analysis? Towards a lessons learnt.

-   Vision … session

    -   Nobody in the meeting. Pere will contact Axel.

    -   Andrea: any specific talks on spark or hadoop for instance?

-   Technology … session

    -   The talk proposals are already in the indico agenda. The titles and actual contents will be discussed with the presenter.

-   Missing pieces … session

    -   Max Baak is confirmed. Suggested Eddy Offermann, but he cannot.

-   Conclusions session

    -   As foreseen.

-   Pere will send a mail to the conveners to add the confirmed tasks into the agenda.

### CWP

-   Announcement sent for the HSF Software Foundation Workshop - 26-30 Jun 2017 (Annecy).

-   We should send the announcement to a wider list. The agenda will be organized around the existing working groups.

-   Simulation WG. Defining a set if benchmarks with the necessary parameters to allow fair comparisons.

-   Software Development WG organising a meeting for next week.

## AOB

-   Michel has been invited to a [*QCD related meeting*](https://indico.lal.in2p3.fr/event/3473/) in Orsay next Monday to present the status of HSF.

-   The license of the TH packages is still pending. Michel will contact the Fastjet people and try to set up a meeting.


