---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #119, December 7, 2017"
layout: default
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #119, December 7, 2017

### *Present/Contributors*: Pere Mato, Michel Jouvin, Benedikt Hegner, Xiaomei Zhang, Peter Elmer, Liz Sexton-Kennedy

News, general matters
=====================

-   ### HSF/WLCG Workshop
    - Second mail delayed to sort out the room availability in Naples and to ensure that the local organizers add the logistics info. but we are late and this is now really urgent
     - [Draft agenda](https://indico.cern.ch/event/658060/timetable/#all.detailed) 

CWP
===

-   ### General Matters and Editorial Board
    -  Commenting period closed on Tuesday morning CET
    - Due to technical limitations in the handling of comments, the publicly available draft has been private to be used as working document for the ghost writers. There is a copy of the original draft 2 version for archive. Links have been updated accordingly.
    - Work has started slowly to address the last comments. Many conflicting meetings for the ghost writers this week but no major points left.
    - Plan to have the first final version (in LaTeX) early next week (Tuesday probably) and to address/finalize the formatting (including references) in the next days to be ready for the release on Dec. 15.
    - An EB meeting has been called for Wednesday 4 pm
    - CWP signers: progressing well, now 175. Email sent to EB asking them to help reaching the non LHC experiments where we are probably weaker (difficult to assess). ROOT team and a few other important CERN SW persons noticeably absent: just an omission?
    - Liz will give a talk about the CWP at the CMS week tomorrow

Activity updates
================

No news on individual working groups beyond CWP preparations. 



AOB
===

-   Graeme is giving a CWP talk in ATLAS S&C Week on Monday PM - will try to circulate draft slides.
- S2I2 project progressing well, final document also expected on Friday 15 and will discuss early 2018 the possibility of funding.

