---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #99, July 13, 2017"
layout: default
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #99, July 13, 2017

#### *Present*: Benedikt Hegner, Michel Jouvin, Graeme Stewart, David Lange

## News, general matters

- Discussion about co-locating the next HSF workshop with the WLCG workshop 
(see Ian Collier's [GDB presentation](https://indico.cern.ch/event/578988/contributions/2646084/attachments/1491953/2319537/GDB-Next-WLCG-Workshop-2017-07-12.pdf)) 
  - April 23-27 is a possible slot. Naples, Bari and Orsay have been mentioned as venues.
  - We will send an email with the proposal
- N.B. Community calendar is pretty empty right now!

## CWP

- Not much activity visible
- Michel was in touch on Data Management with Bo and Andy, but no activity since the workshop
- Graeme has been discussing with Software development people - will send an email tomorrow
- David and Vava will work on the Reco document next week at CERN
- Ping on Monday, push on CWP.

## Activity updates
- Licensing: no feedback received from Fastjet developers about the meeting summary.
  - Michel will send a last reminder on Monday and publish the current summary by the end of next week if no negative feedback is received.

## AOB

- FYI Graeme’s [talk in the ECFA session at EPS](https://indico.cern.ch/event/466934/contributions/2524830/attachments/1490098/2315783/hep-parallel-v3.pdf), 
thanks for input and feedback on drafts.
  - During the big data discussion, it was mentioned that the only HL-LHC scale experiment in the 
  forseeable future is SKA and that we should foster our links with them
  - Good contacts during the outreach sessions at EPS with ALICE and LHCb

- Next meeting next week at the usual time to review progress on CWP.

