#### *Present*: Andrea Valassi, Dario Menasce, Daniel Elvira, Pere Mato Vila, Michel Jouvin, Benedikt Hegner, John Harvey, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, Pete Elmer, Mark Neubauer, David Lange, 

## News, general matters

-   No general news

## CWP

-   #### Simulation

    -   Reported last week that they were converging quite rapidly. Improving some of the chapters. Need some figures.

    -   Executive summary was sent last Monday to the experiments (simulation conveners) to request feedback. Give a couple of weeks to get feedback. A. Ferrrari would like to comment but he is on holidays.

-   #### MachineLearning

    -   No update

-   #### Software Development

    -   Some edits and some progress have been seen. The aim is still beginning of August.

-   #### Software Trigger and Event Reconstruction

    -   The long document will be ready next week. Getting there. No more news.

-   #### Data Access, Organisation and Management

    -   Meeting last Monday to review what was done and shared the work. Next meeting today after this meeting. More tomorrow.

-   #### Data and Software Preservation

    -   Pete is supposed to chase this WG.

-   #### Data Analysis and Interpretation

    -   Updates to the document have been done. Little motion. Oli is back next week.

-   #### Workflow and Resource Management

    -   Graeme to follow, but no news.

-   #### Visualization

    -   Good state of the document.

-   #### Event/Data Processing Frameworks

    -   Liz has bumped with several people. Missing pieces such as fitting a task-based framework with toolkits such as Geant4 need to be integrated. More information from Alice is still needed.

-   #### Careers, Staffing and Training

    -   Document is in a pretty good shape now. Dario will work on this next week. It is currently a few pages long.

-   #### Computing Model

    -   Forgotten last week and this week. The document is still not organized well to be readable according to Liz. Needs to be checked closely with the data management document.

-   #### Next Steps

    -   Author list discussion. This is what was agreed last week and ratified again:

        -   Full WG document everybody that actually contributed.

        -   For the summary document everybody that agrees with the document.

    -   For example, created a google document for the simulation one to start collecting the names of authors.

## Activity updates

### Licensing

-   Licensing. Liz conversation with CMS management. KT gave advice. What we need to understand what the companies want from us in the context of OpenLab. The experiment is attached to GPL (because there are GPL components), is this OK for the companies? Dual licensing GPL and LGPL for different usages of the software. Need advice from the lawyers. What the CMS spokesperson wants is to be able to switch off parts of the software to be LGPL.

### Training

-   Gridka school training material is being moved on Wiki2Learn. They are happy so far. The Wiki2Learn experts are helping in this process.

-   If successful the system can be proposed to other computing schools.

## AOB

-   Decided to continue the HSF meetings throughout August. Starting at 3pm is still ok during summer.


