---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #139, 7 June, 2018"
layout: default
---

# {{page.title}}

#### *Present/Contributors*: Graeme Stewart, Dario Menasce, Michel Jouvin, Pere Mato, Giulio Eulisse, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, Tommaso Boccali, Torre Wenaus, Daniel Elvira
 
News, general matters
=====================
-   ACAT 2019 conference will be in Saas-Fee, 11-15 March.
-   General Reminder - as experiment weeks and activities get scheduled
    for next year please [add them to the community
    calendar](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/calendar.html).
    -   Thanks to Davide for adding the ATLAS Weeks in 2019.
-   Computing & SW for Big Science Editorial Board 2 days ago: good first year for the
    journal (\~15 articles), on track for 25 at the end of the year.
    Need to raise awareness of the journal's existence and encourage people
    to contribute on all aspects of SW&C.

Activity updates
================

Licensing
---------
-   Michel to organize a new meeting with Fastjet developers to
    follow-up on the issues created by their choice of staying with
    GPL.

Training
--------
-   Activity is currently on hold for two reasons: Sudhir is unavailable
	for family reasons
    and we are finalizing the publication of the arXiv
    document on Training (see below).

Packaging
---------
-   Ben and Graeme discussed planning for the group in the wake of the
    LIM workshop. Hoping to have some more R&D activities that are
    complementary to the test drive, to be discussed [next
    week](https://indico.cern.ch/event/730538/).

Frameworks
----------
-   Needs draft agenda and a registration form in Indico, then we should 
    re-announce it.

Software Development
--------------------
-   [Meeting planned next
    week](https://indico.cern.ch/event/735132/), 14 June.
    Follow up on static analysers and profilers. N.B. Due to
    scheduling constraints this meeting will replace our coordination
    meeting.

Software Forum
--------------
-   Had the first software forum meeting
    [yesterday](https://indico.cern.ch/event/733268/),
    on DD4hep suite.
    -   Healthy turnout, \~35 people between room and vidyo.
    -   Format of presentation from developer team and from the
        experiment seemed to work very well.
    -   DD4hep is fulfilling an important role for detector description
        in experiment's software and conversions to various
        representations while keeping consistency. Used mainly by
        detector studies (FCC, ILC,\...) and being evaluated by CMS as
        a replacement of their current system. Useful discussions
        between the developers and experiments.
-   Agreed with Gaudi colleagues that HSF can use the odd numbered weeks
    of the year in this Wednesday 17h slot.
    -   Sadly, clashes for the next two dates: ROOT I/O 20 June;
        US Independence Day 4 July.
    -   Planning for next meeting then 18 July with VecCore and
        SOAContainer presentations.
    -   Then resume after the summer break, 12 September.
-   *Please suggest topics and contact interested parties* - use the
    usual coordination list.

Technical Notes
---------------
-   Technical note on [HSF Platform Naming
    Conventions](https://github.com/HSF/documents/tree/master/HSF-TN/draft-2015-NAM)
    is finishing its consultation stage, please read and comment soon.
    We propose to finalise this after 2018-06-15.
-   Technical note on [HSF Project Best
    Practices](https://github.com/HSF/documents/tree/master/HSF-TN/draft-2016-PROJ)
    is now circulated more widely, please give feedback.

HSF/WLCG Workshop Follow-up
===========================
-   Practical follow ups at the HSF level:
    -   Inventory of community activities:
        -   Ideas for restructuring the website are advancing
            -   [Google
                Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1t8x8Ua9E__vp_9i3KwLGrgk8QDAIGL4-ZPsqvPOUCQY/edit?usp=sharing)
                collecting suggestions.
-   The big picture for "software upgrades":
    -   Discussion with ATLAS and CMS coordination about trying to setup
        working groups in the 'big three' areas: Simulation,
        Reconstruction, Analysis.
        -   Get some key people to act as a seed in their area of
            expertise.
        -   As with all HSF activities this is open to all.

PyHEP Workshop
==============
-   We have extended the registration deadline to June 15th.
-   Questionnaire now ready to go to the participants.

Generators Software Re-engineering Workshop
===========================================
-   Andrea V, Markus S, Witek P and Graeme S met last week and
    identified some names to approach to help organise a workshop for
    the end of the year.
    -   See this great
        [tweet](https://twitter.com/agbuckley/status/1000828947054161920)
        from Andy Buckley that highlights the need for this.
-   Liz: Work commissioned by DOE OoS on generators, so we make sure we
    contact them for involvement.

CWP
===
-   ### General Matters and Roadmap
    -   Publication in Computing&SW for Big Science journal progressing,
        but we need to provide a HSF editorial contact to have HSF has
        the author. Proposal to create an email address for this
        (agreed to do this). Also need to clarify attribution of the
        CWP to all the signatories: current inclination is not to
        attribute it, is it a problem? Doing it means much more
        work...
-   ### Publication status for Individual WG Papers
    -   **Data Organisation, Management and Access**
        -   Submission failure due to missing references... to be fixed.
    -   **Data and Software Preservation**
        -   Still on hold because of Michel lack of time.
    -   **Event/Data Processing Frameworks**
        -   Just need to sort out technical issues with my pull request.
    -   **Careers, Staffing and Training**
        -   Dan Katz helped us by reviewing the document and John Harvey
            is going to do the same in order to keep the quality at
            the required publication standard. I (Dario) have made the
            formatting compliant with the arXiv required standard, so,
            once John feels satisfied we can proceed with final
            submission. An important thing missing is still adequate
            bibliographic references (hard to find, given the
            subject): help on this would also be appreciated.

AOB
===
-   Graeme tidied up Indico a bit - deleting empty categories and moving
    old weekly meetings from the top level into the Weekly Meetings
    category.
-   Website was switched to force https.
-   Reminder - no coordination meeting next week (Software Development Tools
    meeting instead). Reconvene 21 June. 
