---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #121, January 11, 2018"
layout: default
---

### *Present/Contributors*: Dario Menasce, Giulio Eulisse, Graeme Stewart, Benedikt Hegner, Ian Bird, Simone Campana, Pere Mato, Thomas Kuhr, Mike Sokoloff, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, Eduardo Rodrigues, Stewart Martin-Haugh, Pete Elmer

News, general matters
=====================
-   ### Happy New Year!

CWP
===
-   ### General Matters and Roadmap
    -   Reminder of the published URL:
        [https://arxiv.org/abs/1712.06982](https://arxiv.org/abs/1712.06982).
    -   We continue to add authors on request to
        [hsf-cwp-ghost-writers@googlegroups.com](mailto:hsf-cwp-ghost-writers@googlegroups.com).
        -   Not a lot of new names so far this year.
        -   At some point we have to decide when we are done.
    -   Two talks so far this year:
        -   Nordic Physics Conference:
            [https://indico.cern.ch/event/666278/contributions/2830239/](https://indico.cern.ch/event/666278/contributions/2830239/).
        -   Grid Deployment Board:
            [https://indico.cern.ch/event/651349/](https://indico.cern.ch/event/651349/).
    -   Graeme approached the CERN Courier and the editor's feedback is
        that this is interesting, should be a \~2400 word article. To be confirmed 
        early next week after their editorial meeting.
    -   Article on CWP published last year in the CERN EP department
        newsletter:
        [http://ep-news.web.cern.ch/content/hep-software-foundation-community-white-paper-looks-forward-hl-lhc](http://ep-news.web.cern.ch/content/hep-software-foundation-community-white-paper-looks-forward-hl-lhc).
    -   Newsletter in [interactions.org](https://www.interactions.org/) - Eduardo to follow up.
    -   We have been approached by the editors of the [Computing and
        Software for Big Science journal](https://www.springer.com/physics/particle+and+nuclear+physics/journal/41781)
        about publishing it there.
        -   Pere wondered if this was really suitable for a research
            journal. As we were approached by the editors we think
            so - more of a review article.
        -   Those who have known about this (Ghost Writers) are positive
            about this.
        -   This would provide a natural cut off for signing.
        -   General conclusion is that we should pursue this with the
            journal editors.

-   #### Publication strategy for Individual WG Papers
    -   We noted that conversion from Google Doc to LaTeX was far less
        painful than had been thought so our recommendation for arXiv
        publication for individual papers is updated. This was
        followed to get the Software Development paper to arXiv late
        last year.
        -   [Advice on WG publication](/cwp/cwp-wg-papers.html).
    -   We have to decide what to do when the WG paper is in a much less
        developed state than the roadmap (Generators, ML) or only only
        really exists in the roadmap (Security).
    -   #### Software Development
        -   Done as exemplar:
            [https://arxiv.org/abs/1712.07959](https://arxiv.org/abs/1712.07959)
    -   #### Simulation
        -   Need to revisit the detailed paper ensure consistency. Then
            will follow the procedure.
    -   #### Machine Learning
        -   To follow up.
    -   #### Software Trigger and Event Reconstruction
        -   Neither Vava nor David can attend today. Apologies. We plan
            to pick up improvements to our text made during the final
            editing of the cwp and hope to submit to the archive next
            week. We already have completed one pass of gathering
            authors and will do another.
    -   #### Data Organisation, Management and Access
        -   To follow up.
    -   #### Data and Software Preservation
        -   To follow up.
    -   #### Data Analysis and Interpretation
        -   To follow up.
    -   #### Visualization
        -   Ric (unable to attend today) will do final paper edits next
            week, ready for last circulation before arXiv.
    -   #### Event/Data Processing Frameworks
        -   Liz at CERN next week, will follow up with Benedikt.
    -   #### Careers, Staffing and Training
        -   Dario will backport material from the roadmap.
    -   #### Facilities and Distributed Computing
        -   Clean up needed of the WG document.
    -   #### Conditions Access
        -   To follow up.
    -   #### Generators
        -   Needs some work from roadmap document. Should get CMS,
            Durham IPPP inputs as well.
    -   #### Security
        - To follow up.
-   John Harvey - what's the plan for producing a document for the LHCC?
    <br>Ian - will give the LHCC a strategy document in February; the WLCG
    view of the CWP Roadmap.
    
Upcoming Events
===============

[HSF/WLCG Workshop](https://indico.cern.ch/event/658060/overview)
-----------------
-   Summary yesterday in [GDB meeting](https://indico.cern.ch/event/651349/).
    -   All local organisation points are done.
    -   Registration has quietly opened yesterday.
    -   Need to chase up conveners (we have a wish list - need to
        contact them).
    -   Goal is to follow up on the CWP roadmap, identify and work on
        real projects.
    -   Plenty of parallel session opportunities - *working groups should actively propose
        parallel sessions!*
-   Discussion: Mike - goal should be cross-experiment development
    collaborations. Useful to have 'outcomes' in advance and try to
    structure the workshop towards them; though sometimes the outcomes were
    different to those originally envisaged. E.g., in software
    development could try to discuss tools and methods to implement
    suggestions in the white paper. Giulio - could discuss an
    incubation procedure to help people to get started on their
    projects. Simone - should focus on priorities for WLCG. 
- Please check the [agenda](https://indico.cern.ch/event/658060/timetable/). 
  Main point is to get the right people there.
    
PyHEP Workshop
--------------
-   Reminder: 1st "Python in HEP" workshop to be held as a pre-CHEP
    event on 7-8 July 2018, so just before CHEP 2018 itself.
    -   Goal of workshop(s): provide an environment to discuss and
        promote the usage of Python in the HEP community at large.
-   Organisation progressing well and we now have a reasonable idea of
    workshop structure & agenda.
    -   Organising committee: Eduardo, Graeme, Jeff.
-   The 1.5-day agenda will be composed of plenary sessions dedicated to
    the following topics:
    1. Historical perspective and overview
    2. PyROOT and Python bindings
    3. HEP python software ecosystem
    4. Distribution and installation
    5. Analysis frameworks
    6. Python 2 versus 3
    7. Open discussion on education and training
-   There won't be any training sessions or hackathons in this first
    workshop, but some level of tuition will come in small bites in
    the various presentations, which will try and be educative, not
    just informative, with well-defined examples relevant to the
    topics under discussion
    -   One of the goals of this PyHEP workshop will be to identify
        training workshops or hackathons the community would like to
        have in the future
-   Announcement will go out on Monday 15th
    -   Dedicated page + advert on HSF website
    -   Announcement email to be sent around
-   Once the announcement is out, find speakers for presentations
    foreseen, finalise the agenda, \...
    
Activity updates
================

Licensing
---------
-   Graeme still chasing HepMC status.

Training
--------
- Nothing to report.   

Packaging
---------
-   Next meeting 17 January.

AOB
===
-   HSF New Year Newsletter
    -   Should cover CWP status and upcoming workshops
-   Make sure we propose a CWP talk for CHEP itself.
