---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #136, 17 May, 2018"
layout: default
---

# {{page.title}}

#### *Present/Contributors*: Graeme Stewart, Enric Tejedor, Ben Morgan, Dario Menasce, Guilherme, Enric Tejedor, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, Torre Wenaus, David Lange, Eduardo Rodrigues, Daniel Elvira, Mark Neubauer

News, general matters
=====================
-   HSF were invited (via Torre) to contribute an update to the [EIC
    Software Consortium
    meeting](https://www.jlab.org/indico/event/264/other-view?view=standard)
    taking place in JLab this week.
    -   This follows up from [Torre's
        presentation](https://www.jlab.org/indico/event/213/session/7/contribution/30/material/slides/0.pdf)
        1 year ago.
    -   Although the timescale here is very short, with the archive of
        recent HSF talks on the CWP and beyond it looks feasible.
    -   Graeme has volunteered to do it.
-   Graeme has been asked by the
    [ECFA](https://ecfa.web.cern.ch/) (European
    Committee for Future Accelerators) chair, Jorgen D\'Hondt, to give
    a 20' plenary talk at their next meeting, Barcelona 19-20 June.
    -   "A key objective was defined by the committee to reflect on the
        potential future opportunities and challenges related to
        analysis tools. From trigger and reconstruction to selection
        and estimation, the performance of analysis tools relates
        strongly on the developments in software and computing. Hence
        it triggers the question how the particle physics community
        should prepare itself on this software front and how well we
        are currently preparing."
    -   Perfect topic for HSF input. Demonstrates how well HSF is known
        in the wider community now.
        
HSF/WLCG Workshop Follow-up
===========================
-   Practical follow ups at the HSF level
    -   Inventory of community activities
        -   Still TBD.
    -   More variation in meeting themes (more topical)
        -   Successful licensing meeting last week (see below)
        -   Propose we also start
            -   To cover upcoming and interesting software projects in
                the community with a current/potential common user base
                -   Graeme spoke to DD4hep developers and they would be
                    happy to do this (6 June looks like a good date).
            -   Take presentations from other close communities
                -   Following up on our ESC contacts, Markus
                    Diefenthaler (JLab) would be happy to do this.
        -   What about other projects and topics, what are good ideas?
    -   Collaboration guide for projects
        -   Draft by Benedikt. Iterating with Graeme.
        
PyHEP Workshop
==============
-   Agenda 90% finalised.
-   Important check with everyone: did the last advert email (the one
    with the close-to-final agenda) get broadcast to the usual
    experimental communities? Thanks for having forwarded /
    forwarding.
    - Yes for ATLAS and LHCb. CMS and ALICE to be checked.
-   65 people registered.

Activity updates
================

Licensing
---------
-   Meeting held on [9
    May](https://indico.cern.ch/event/727095/)
    ([minutes](http://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/organization/2018/05/09/licensing.html)).
    -   Contributions from ATLAS, LHCb and Belle II.
    -   ATLAS/CMS strategy is to split licensing.
        -   Maybe even reimplement some components, especially if there
            is additional technical need to do so.
    -   CERN strategically changing licenses away from GPL to more
        liberal, like MIT.
    -   Follow up foreseen.
    -   Please [join](mailto:hsf-licensing-wg+subscribe@googlegroups.com)
        Working Group mailing list!
        
Training
--------
-   Sudhir, Albert and Dario (the two of them) agreed to setup a portal
    (as part of the HSF web site) to host links to Schools of
    Computing, online training material from different sources, news
    etc... In the future this should scale up to contain things like a
    newsletter (provided we find manpower). Activity will start as
    soon as teaching duties end (couple of weeks). We already have a
    [skeleton of a
    document](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1J5DVs0f1aUpsfp5hewGos43NCr7jr3unWMH8kivkKsc/edit#gid=0)
    with links to schools and contact persons.
    
Packaging
---------
-   Meeting of [May
    16](https://indico.cern.ch/event/727088/), discussed
    Guix (alternative to Nix) and Test Drives of various tools.
    
Frameworks
----------
-   Frameworks Birds of a Feather session at CHEP
    -   Will ask for update next week.
    
GSoC
----
-   See
    [slides](https://indico.cern.ch/event/722018/contributions/2968145/attachments/1651514/2641681/HSFMeeting_GSoC_17052018.pdf)
    from Enric.
- Graeme thanked Enric and the other coordinators for their
  great work on GSoC.
    

CWP
===
-   ### General Matters and Roadmap
    -   CSBS conversion ongoing, but their LaTeX style is very awkward
        (two column layout). There is a
        [WIP](https://github.com/HSF/documents/pull/82)
        for sharing progress on this.
-   ### Individual WG Papers
    -   **Software Trigger and Event Reconstruction**
        -   Still need a PR into the documents archive.
    -   **Data and Software Preservation**
        -   Mike has sent a version to Michel and Graeme.
    -   **Event/Data Processing Frameworks**
        -   Liz just needs to do a rebase.
    -   **Conditions Access**
        -   Paul is on leave at the moment

AOB
===
-   [Technical
    Note](http://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/technical_notes.html)
    on naming platforms is now promoted to Consultation Phase
    -   Please take a look and give feedback
