---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #126, 15 February, 2018"
layout: default
---

# {{page.title}}

#### *Present/Contributors*: Mike Sokoloff, Marco Clemencic, John Harvey, Benedikt Hegner, Dario Menasce, Eduardo Rodrigues, David Crooks, Dario Berzano, David Lange, Elizabeth Sexton-Kennedy, Helge Meinhard, Sudhir Malik, Torre Wenaus, Daniel Elvira, Eric Lancon, Mohammad Al-Turany, Riccardo Maria Bianchi, Oliver Gutsche, Jim Pivarski

News, general matters
=====================
-   No news

HSF/WLCG Workshop
=================
-   ### General points
    -   More than 110 participants already. Still not every convener
        signed up.
    -   Vidyo provided in all the rooms
        -   Fallback with a second provider required?
        -   Will coordinate with local organisers
-   ### Monday
    -   Opening Plenary
        -   No news
    -   Technology Watch
        -   Very short abstract for sponsor talk; unsure about content
        -   Need to discuss with local organizers about topics and how
            much it's just advertising
    -   HEP Use Cases
        -   Got replies from a few speakers
        -   Generators an open question. Tyler was the person on the CWP
            process. Already asked him
            -   Maybe Graeme has a few ideas for other people as he was
                dealing with MC net people
-   ### Tuesday
    -   Data Management/Lakes
        -   No news
    -   Frameworks and Infrastructure
        -   Agreed to have three talks. Two confirmed, waiting for the
            third; will update agenda once three confirmations
    -   Training (Parallel)
        -   Broadly defined the overall structure of the 2 hours
            training session:
        1.  **Experiment specific training talk (total 30')** - Talk(s)
            summarizing training activities of individual LHC experiments
            (CMS/ATLAS/LHCb etc., such as the StarterKit). Just a few slides on each
            so that we don't dwell too much on what is accomplished (though there is
            a lot and it is an enormous in-house achievement) as we need to move
            forward based on these.
        2.  **A talk(s) summarizing cross-HEP Experiment training (total 30')**
            like CoDAS School + Gridka + CERN School of Computing + Bertinoro. This
            talk brings common HEP training or training in computing techniques
            broader than HEP
        3.  **General commonalities talks (total 30')**: (may be 2 talks) on
            ideas how we can build on common topics of wider interest of HEP
            community based on experience of (1) and (2) and move forward future
            direction and plans etc. in US + Europe. Also how we can cut across to
            non-HEP computer science community in building this training model.
        4.  **Round Table (30'):** subject could be "*how to integrate all these
            efforts in an efficient, cost-effective and sustainable training
            experience to a wide variety of potential users*". In practice: "*how do
            we make further good progress with respect to what already exist?*"
		-   Potential speakers identified (somewhat), need to contact them (for
    	        some we already have confirmation)
    -   DPHEP (Parallel)
        -   No news
    -   Workload Management
        -   No real news; deflected a suggestion to include an HPC
            center talk, want to stick to WFM content. State of the
            planning [is
            here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14_VqEx5mWZrzGxKPZZWoOBe0ml0BduuFGEkQgG0FbFM/edit).
    -   Analysis Facilities and Use Cases
        -   Agenda almost finalised, with 4 out of 5 speakers confirmed.
-   ### Wednesday
    -   Programming for Concurrency and Co-Processors
        -   3 or 4 talks; 3 semi-confirmations
        -   Vincenzo as a candidate for second convener - Liz will ask
            this week
    -   Visualisation (Parallel)
        -   Ric and Tom are building the agenda. Some contributions have
            been defined, already, by ROOT Team, ATLAS and CMS, so
            far.
        -   [https://indico.cern.ch/event/658060/sessions/266387/\#20180328](https://indico.cern.ch/event/658060/sessions/266387/#20180328)
        -   Interest by ALICE. In contact with Belle II. Other
            experiments might want to present as well.
        -   Ric (ATLAS) and Ilija Vukotic (ATLAS) are in contact with
            Ljubljana University Computer Science Department. CMS
            might join as well, to start a HEP-joint project for HEP
            Visualization, to develop common tools which could be used
            by different experiments.
    -   Simulation
        -   Defined a number of contributions in the indico outline
        -   Not yet sure about the exact scheduling of presentations
        -   Availability of speakers is a major constraint to the
            scheduling
        -   R&D program seems very robust.
        -   At least two remote speakers from SLAC
            -   If funding is the only problem, Mike could help out.
                Will contact Andrea
    -   Security (Parallel)
        -   Tidied topic list; speaker discussions to match underway -
            hopefully more next time
    -   Performance and Cost Modeling (Parallel)
        -   No news
    -   Technical Discussion on Frameworks (Parallel)
        -   Asking for policy; need still to discuss with
    -   Software Development (Parallel)
        -   No news
-   Thursday
    -   Closing Plenary
        -   No news
        

PyHEP Workshop
==============
-   Sponsorship from the Python Software Foundation is confirmed -
    excellent news!
    
