---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #125, 8 February, 2018"
layout: default
---

# {{page.title}}

#### *Present/Contributors*: Graeme Stewart, Giulio Eulisse, Eduardo Rodrigues, Mike Sokoloff, Mike Hildreth, Benedikt Hegner, Helge Meinhard, Daniel Elvira, David Crooks, Jim Pivarski, Torre Wenaus, Riccardo Maria Bianchi, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, Marco Clemencic, Eric Lancon, Paolo Calafiura, David Lange, Frunk Wuerthwein, Mohammad Al-Turany, Oli Gutsche, Eric LanÃ§on, Alessandra Doria

News, general matters
=====================

-   Contacted by the organiser (promoter?) of the [FOSS
    Backstage](https://foss-backstage.de/) conference.
    -   "The conference on everything related to governance,
        collaboration, legal and economics within the scope of FOSS".
    -   Not immediately clear if this would be actually interesting for
        us, although the related [Berlin
        Buzzwords](https://berlinbuzzwords.de/18/about)
        event does seem well established (open source big data
        conference).
    -   Apache Foundation are an event partner (does this make it more
        real?).
    -   Call for papers until 18th February.
    -   Graeme will follow up.

HSF/WLCG Workshop
=================

-   ### General points
    -   After discussion we swapped Security and Performance Costs WG
        sessions on Wednesday, adding an extra Performance and Costs
        hands-on session as well.
        -   Barring any crises, agenda is final.
    -   We will be able to have a contribution from SKA on Thursday
        morning, hopefully in person. This will eat into the closing
        plenary a bit, but we feel it's a valuable contribution to
        include.
    -   87 registered - this is ok, not great.
        -   Can convenors and HSF advocates invite people to come?
            Individual invitations take time, but have a much higher
            success rate than blanket emails.
    -   Early registration closes on 16th February.
    -   Mike S - could use some S2I2 conceptualisation funds to help
        people from the US to come for HSF pieces: younger
        participants or session convenors; labs included.
    -   Sponsor contributions to the workshop.
        -   Rittal sent a title and a short abstract:
            -   STATE-OF-THE-ART PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FOR HPC:
                Enabling HPC through a modular physical infrastructure
                is a must to ensure the best performance and an
                effective TCO. Minimized operative costs, and a
                scalable investment are key success factors in
                implementing HPC efficient platforms.
        -   Still waiting for the abstract from Dell/Intel, they said we
            will receive it tomorrow.
        -   We don't know yet the names of the presenters.
        -   Will the sponsor presentations be included in the Technology
            Watch session? A. Yes.
-   ### Monday
    -   Opening Plenary
        -   In good shape - all talks planned.
    -   Technology Watch
        -   Planned the session now (for 90 minutes, 30 goes to vendors).
    -   HEP Use Cases
        -   List of topics and speakers is created - will contact people
            in the next week.
-   ### Tuesday
    -   Data Management/Lakes
        -   Session is now planned in Indico.
    -   Frameworks and Infrastructure
        -   Planning on three 30' talks: broadly speaking dedicated to
            online aspects (including GPU/coprocessor management),
            offline aspects (including thread/process/node
            management), and HPC parallelization, trying to cover
            multiple experiments/frameworks.
        -   Boundaries with WMS and Fwk Technical to be discussed.
    -   Training (Parallel)
        -   No news.
    -   DPHEP (Parallel)
        -   Mike H and Jamie S did some planning on the session:
            Certification, CWP goals, brainstorming.
    -   Workload Management (Parallel)
        -   Four topics added to the agenda, not yet mapped to (\~4
            or 5) talks. More info in [a googledoc linked from the
            agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14_VqEx5mWZrzGxKPZZWoOBe0ml0BduuFGEkQgG0FbFM/edit?usp=sharing).
    -   Analysis Facilities and Use Cases
        -   Agenda finalised and skeleton up online.
        -   Potential speakers all contacted, 2/5 confirmed.
-   ### Wednesday
    -   Programming for Concurrency and Co-Processors
        -   Still seeking co-convenor.
        -   Areas:
            -   Trigger
            -   GeantV
            -   Parallel tracking
            -   Parallel processing models - developer of Dask from
                anaconda (outwith HEP)
                -   We discussed this proposal and it was well received.
    -   Visualisation (Parallel)
        -   Riccardo & Tom started to gather proposals and filling the
            agenda.
        -   A potential talk from an outside-of-HEP institute:
            University of Ljubljana Computing Science department.
    -   Simulation
        -   Two sessions: faster simulation and improving physics.
        -   Have a list of speakers and contributions prepared.
            -   Some speakers will be remote, need a good vidyo setup.
        -   Can put these into the agenda now - Andrea or Daniel will
            do it.
    -   Security (Parallel)
        -   Second convenor from CMS? Brian Bockelman still might help
            out.
        -   Topics, for further drafting and sorting into talks:
        -   Trust and Policies
            -   GDPR
        -   Authentication and Authorisation
            -   Authorisation WG status/summary
        -   Operational Security
            -   Requirements for operational security in the future
            -   Threat Intelligence
            -   Discussion
            -   Operational security technology requirements (SOC WG
                status & summary)
            -   Traceability
            -   Containers/Singularity
            -   IPv6
    -   Performance and Cost Modeling (Parallel)
        -   Progress in planning in the WG meetings.
    -   Technical Discussion on Frameworks (Parallel)
        -   Need to clarify which technical aspects of frameworks should
            be discussed.
        -   In the plenary want to tackle the boundary between nodes and
            processing framework.
        -   Technical session would try to decompose where we are on
            frameworks and address the CWP roadmap goals.
            -   E.g., is TBB still an optimal choice?
            -   What is a good cadence for updating framework
                components?
    -   Software Development (Parallel)
        -   Martin still in Japan. Giulio starting to think about
            possible discussion topics:
            -   Project Incubation:
                -   Does the Incubator model of Apache make sense for
                    HSF?
                -   As a project leaders what would make me move to HSF?
                -   As a HSF reviewers what are the minimum requirement
                    for incubating a project?
                - Graeme: can HSF provide a source of technical knowledge (design, implementation).
            -   Project discussions:
                -   Packaging requirements, what is missing? How do we
                    scale to multiple project which have completely
                    different timescales and requirements in terms of
                    software stacks? How do we integrate into
                    mainstream?
                -   Static analysers. All the LHC experiments / projects
                    use some form of static analysers, mostly based on
                    clang. How do we contribute back all those efforts
                    so that everyone can profit from that?
                -   Profilers. How do we share and compare profile data
                    between different tools and experiments?
                -   GVFS: git has become the defacto standard VCS in HEP
                    and in the world. Is GVFS the next big revolution
                    in the way we work? If yes, what are the
                    implications / possibilities?
            -   Becoming mainstream:
                -   What are the OpenSource conferences / workshops we
                    should try to have a more "active" presence?
                    -   Python ones?
                    -   FOSDEM?
                -   Geek watch: how do we share information about the
                    latests tools and practices? Mailing list?
-   Thursday
    -   Closing Plenary
        -   Anticipate SKA contribution here: 20-30 minutes.

CWP
===

-   ### General Matters and Roadmap
    -   arXiv update a little delayed - announcement was late and
        waiting for CMS resource plots with the correct axes labels
        (MHS06s -> THS06s)
        -   We now have all the pieces though, so this can be done
            \~now.
        -   Added 10 new signatures since last week.
    -   Computing and Software for Big Science - discussed with Markus
        Elsing. He did not think it would be a problem to update the
        signatures after submission, but is confirming with other
        editors and Springer.
        -   The lead time for publication is >8 weeks, so we would be
            ok to take signatures until the Naples workshop.
-   ### Publication strategy for Individual WG Papers
    -   #### Simulation
        -   There is a final version of the long note; circulating
            amongst the authors and calling for supporters.

PyHEP Workshop
==============

-   Good progress with agenda and finding speakers.
-   Sponsorship from PSF awaiting news (expect anytime within the next 2
    weeks).

Activity updates
================

Licensing
---------
-   No news.

Training
--------
-   Pete Elmer is putting together an NSF proposal that might find some
    HEP community training under the HSF umbrella.
    -   Will be useful to discuss this further in Naples.

Packaging
---------
-   Meeting 7 Feb:
    [https://indico.cern.ch/event/700265/](https://indico.cern.ch/event/700265/)
    -   Homing in on Use Cases Document.
    -   Heard about SpackDev plans.
    -   Report on use of Spack for FCC.
        -   Further discussion in the next meeting
-   Next meeting 21 Feb:
    [https://indico.cern.ch/event/704402/](https://indico.cern.ch/event/704402/)

GSoC
----
-   Proposals in, waiting for Google to confirm CERN-HSF as an organisation 
    in the GSoC 2018 programme, which should happen by Feb. 12th.

