---
title: "HSF Steering Group Meeting, 30 April 2026"
layout: plain_toc
---


## Attending

Present/Contributing: Eduardo Rodrigues, Michel Villanueva, Paul Laycock, Graeme Stewart, Stefan Roiser

Apologies: Claire Antel

## News


## Joint WLCG/HSF workshop 2026

We have converged on a draft set of HSF parallel sessions. Feel free to suggest speakers for some presentations we may invite people for; otherwise, we're good for now.

ACTION: Eduardo to email the AA conveners to check if they have ideas regards invitations. 

## Activity Area activities

Status? Please all SG members update their roles and ensure they liaise with their AA conveners.

As Claire put it (very nicely), "I have found it pretty helpful to have the Area Activities brainstorm seminar topics and organise the speakers. It helped to have links to a wider set of experiments, and ... kept them engaged.".


## WLCG Management Board community software liaison

The LHCC have asked for a presentation at the forthcoming LHCC meeting (2 June), Stefan will prepare slides, Eduardo will do the presentation, many thanks!!


## Advisory Group news and follow-ups

Christian Gutschow got elected as the new (and first!) chair of the HSF AG. Congratulations and many thanks to him! We look forward to working with Christian.

We still have the action from this year's AG meeting to try and attract representatives from ALICE and MCnet on the SG team.
ACTION: Eduardo to re-ping AG contacts on this matter.

## HSF Budget

Support for the JuliaHEP workshop has been accepted. Nothing else so far in the pipeline.

## Project Affiliation and Affiliated Projects

Significant review of the programme has been done, in particular:

- Change the "Tiers" wording with respect to the original EVERSE one.
- Mention that the affiliated projects decide their software category by themselves (minor doubt: what if the reviewers don't agree? Should we have a light-touch review of this?)
- Turn the differential criteria for software of different tiers into desirable criteria that is not necessary for affiliation.
- Add mentions and contextualisation page for connections to ICFA and EVERSE.
- Soften the "number of developers" criteria.
- Introduction of a duration for the granted affiliation. A period of 5 years seems suitable.
- Removal of old scheme affiliation since many colleagues got confused by it.
- Removal of the old idea of annual project awards, which is by-now very unlikely to be implemented.

Latest version of the (online) pages with all details, for review and approval, are the following:
- <https://github.com/HSF/hsf.github.io/pull/1918>
- <https://github.com/HSF/hsf.github.io/pull/1921>

Any immediate feedback?

**ACTION FOR ALL:** review and eventually approve towards finalisation. Deadline of next Wednesday May 6th.

**FOR APPROVAL:** the documents of the reviews are circulated for community feedback and approval.
Shall we add them to the repo and link to them from the [projects page](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/projects/projects.html)?
That can be beneficial (1) to record the review process, (2) to give credit to the named reviewers, and (3) to eventually help with re-evaluations, acting as a starting point/reference, (4) for matters of transparency.

#### Reviews recently finalised
- MadGraph5_aMC@NLO
- Pepper
- Pythia

#### Ongoing reviews
- DIRAC - in community-wide feedback stage, deadline is May 7th
- NoPayloadDB Conditions Database - WIP

ACTION TO ALL: engage with other projects.

## SG Composition

- If you know of someone who is active in community work and shares the HSF's goals consider inviting them to be on the SG.
- We should review annually the composition. Reminder that  our SG webpage states that _"When a SG member becomes inactive (e.g., ceases to meaningfully follow any HSF activities) in the HSF they will leave the SG."_.

## HSF representation

- We are regularly asked to present or attend events
  - See list of presentations at <https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/organization/presentations.html>.

ACTION: please check if the talks you gave for the HSF are listed at the above link.

## HSF GitHub matters

The SG team <https://github.com/orgs/HSF/teams/steering-group> has been updated. Use it to get PRs notified to / reviewed by the whole team.

A couple of obsoleted teams got removed, e.g. the "core" team.

## AOB

### Next Meeting

Most likely in June, after CHEP.
