---
title: MadAnalysis5 - Implementing 2D Histogram Generator
layout: gsoc_proposal
project: MadAnalysis5
year: 2023
difficulty: easy
duration: 175
mentor_avail: June-October
organization:
  - LPTHE
  - IPPP
---

# Description

MadAnalysis 5 is a framework for phenomenological investigations at particle colliders. 
Based on a C++ kernel, this program allows us to efficiently perform, in a straightforward and user-friendly 
fashion, sophisticated physics analyses of event files such as those generated by a large class of 
Monte Carlo (MC) event generators. MadAnalysis 5 comes with two modes of running. The first one, easier 
to handle, uses the strengths of a powerful Python interface to implement the analysis utilizing a set of 
intuitive commands. The second one requires implementing the analysis in the C++ programming language 
directly within the core of the analysis framework. This opens unlimited possibilities concerning the 
level of complexity that can be reached by the analysis, which is only limited by the programming skills 
and the originality of the user.

## Task ideas

Multi-dimensional histograms are an essential tool for multivariate analyses. Currently MadAnalysis is only equiped with methods allowing for one-dimensional histograms. This project aims at designing a 2D histogram generator in C++, a histogram writer using SQL, and our local human readable output format. Finally, a Python-based plot generator will be designed, allowing our user to plot 2D histograms in a fully automated manner.

## Expected results & Milestones

* Learning how MadAnalysis 5 works.
* Designing a C++ based plot generator.
* Designing a proper output format for these 2D histograms.
* Integrating a 2D histograming tool for the report generator interface.

## Requirements

* C++
* Python
* Git

## Mentors

* **[Benjamin Fuks](mailto:fuks@lpthe.jussieu.fr)**
* [Jack Y. Araz](mailto:jack.araz@durham.ac.uk)


## Links

* [MadAnalysis 5](http://madanalysis.irmp.ucl.ac.be)
* [GitHub page](https://github.com/MadAnalysis/madanalysis5)
