---
title: MadAnalysis 5 - Integration of theoretical uncertainty calculation with multiweight integration
layout: gsoc_proposal
project: MadAnalysis5
year: 2022
difficulty: medium
duration: 350
mentor_avail: June-October
organization:
  - LPTHE
  - IPPP
---

# Description

MadAnalysis 5 is a framework for phenomenological investigations at particle colliders. 
Based on a C++ kernel, this program allows to efficiently perform, in a straightforward and user-friendly 
fashion, sophisticated physics analyses of event files such as those generated by a large class of 
Monte Carlo (MC) event generators. MadAnalysis 5 comes with two modes of running. The first one, easier 
to handle, uses the strengths of a powerful Python interface to implement the analysis utilizing a set of 
intuitive commands. The second one requires implementing the analysis in the C++ programming language 
directly within the core of the analysis framework. This opens unlimited possibilities concerning the 
level of complexity that can be reached by the analysis, which is only limited by the programming skills 
and the originality of the user.

Validation is an essential ingredient of software development. The current testing and validation structure of MadAnalysis relies on legacy code and is done on private servers. Only a fraction of validation has been implemented to be executed actively on GitHub. We want to extend this implementation and implement a separate function-based testing environment which can be executed within GitHub's CI/CD workflow. This project will allow the contributor to learn an essential ingredient of software development where s/he will create a GitHub-based testing module which can work efficiently and effectively within CI/CD workflow. This project will involve identifying mathematical functions that need testing, creating an efficient module for limited resources provided by GitHub and deploying validated software.

## Task ideas

This project will involve designing a `C++` based unit test module and execution of this module within GitHub workflows. Thus we expect contributors to have a good understanding of C++ unit tests and working knowledge of GitHub's CI/CD workflows.


## Expected results & Milestones

* Learning how MadAnalysis 5 works.
* Identifying functions that needs to be tested.
* Creating individual unit tests for every function that has been identified.
* Preparing CI/CD workflow for unit test.

## Requirements

* Strong C++ skills
* Python
* strong knowledge on git and GitHub especially CI/CD workflows


## Mentors

* **[Benjamin Fuks](mailto:fuks@lpthe.jussieu.fr)**
* [Jack Y. Araz](mailto:jack.araz@durham.ac.uk)


## Links

* [MadAnalysis 5](http://madanalysis.irmp.ucl.ac.be)
* [GitHub page](https://github.com/MadAnalysis/madanalysis5)
