---
title: "Startup Team Minutes #28"
layout: meetings
---
# Meeting notes for the June 22, 2015 startup team meeting

[Indico Agenda](https://indico.cern.ch/event/403784/)

Present: Torre, Pere, Benedikt, Daniel, Andrew, Andrea

Apologies: Michel, Dario

## Startup meeting timeslot

The doodle suggests that Thu 5pm works well. **Agreed that we will move to Thu 5pm CERN time effective next week**


## [IFB meeting readiness](https://indico.cern.ch/event/400188/)

Expected presentations:

  - training: Dario
  - sw packaging: Liz
  - licensing: John
  - technical notes: Andrew

The rest will be short updates included in a catch-all 'Other activities' talk at the end, which Pere will give. It will include brief status news that people will contribute for software projects, dev tools and services, knowledge base/communication.

No announcement of the meeting has gone out yet. After this meeting (and when indico is working) Torre will update the agenda and send an announcement.

## Activities, working group updates

### Packaging

Benedikt - had another meeting last week. CMS presented. Presentations getting more and more organized, addressing standard questions, putting together a taxonomy. One tomorrow on Fermilab solution. Then will summarize and categorize to eventually identify the best starting point. Lots of consensus on the things to tackle; already an achievement.

Pere - please put links to these meetings on the packaging page on the website.

Benedikt - will do.

### Training

Dario reported: we had our first meeting of the Training & Tutoring WG last week. I placed the minutes in the googlegroups folder.

### Licensing

Pere - John is actively assimilating the voluminous input, expecting a report on Wed.

### Technical notes

Andrew - will report on Wed.

### others: SW projects, Communication and KB, development tools/services

No big news.

Torre will set up a Tech Notes page on the site for Andrew to populate. Also the Community page we've discussed (to include jobs, related projects, ...).

## Next workshop

October/November perhaps? When more real work has been done. We'll see whether people have opinions on Wed.

## AoB

IFB on Wed, and next's week's meeting will be Thu 5pm CERN time, our new slot.
