---
title: "Startup Team Minutes #19"
layout: meetings
---

# HEP Software Foundation Startup Team Meeting notes Mar 30 2015

Present: Andrea, Andrew, Liz, Michel, Pere, Torre, Benedikt

Excused: Dario, Graeme

## Software Projects
  No news on this

## Training WG
 - Graeme: Summarized a long e-mail. Software Carpentry implies some sort of certification after 8-12 hours. Overoptimistic on the material. We sold avoid creating some barriers.  We probably should do both: our thing and get in contact with them. He contacted some colleague on how to get started.
 - Comment to Dario’s proposal: WikiFM is quite nice and produces nice pages. Markdown should be sufficient. A bit hesitant to recommend at this moment. Flexibility is very important. Should be easy for people that want to contribute with tutorial material.
 - Liz: CMS uses Github to add tutorial material. We can use ‘tags’ to get consistent state of material For example of problems and answers to the students.
 - We need to minimize the effort by people for collecting all possible material.
 - Some concerns about WikiFM. It is perhaps a bit restrictive.
 - Graeme will work with Dario to produce some slides for the CHEP meeting.

## Software packaging
 - Jim Kowalkowski will be approached by Benedikt again. There will be a meeting this week. Get involved in github discussion.
Prepare the vision to CHEP meeting.

## Software Development and Services
 - Not much progress on the Coverity service yet.
 - Tech lab announcement on the availability of new architectures such as ARM64.
 - Is anybody going to be at CHEP from TechLab?

## S&C Knowledge Base, communication, social media
Nothing new. Torre would like to make it more appealing and get more contributions.

## Technical notes
 - Andrew: Preparing a straw man document with the policies and procedure for acceptance of notes. The format can be PDF and provide a Latex template. People car use their preferred word processor copying the format from the Latex template.  The document will be ready before to CHEP. He will prepare some slides.
 - Everything sounds very reasonable.
 - Benedikt suggested that packing discussion could be a note candidate.

## Forums (reco algorithms, concurrency, ...)
 - Created the forum but there is no followup.
 - Algorithm Forum meeting

## Licensing
No progress.

## Okinawa agenda

 - We should count on a rather short meeting (2-3 hours).
 - Liz has volunteer to prepare and deliver the talk for WLCG. She suggested to re-use some of the existing material.
 - Mentioned that this meeting could be an opportunity to get policy-maker people.
    - Perhaps a good moment for the licensing discussion
 - Proposed agenda layout:
    - HSF intorduction
    - Algorithm Forum presentation (early in the afternoon)
    - Woking groups update
 - Algorithm Forum  early in the afternoon
 - Pere will create an agenda in Indico.
 - Check the Techlab and Fermilab participation.
 - Members of the startup team participating: Liz, Michel, Pete, Graeme, Torre, Andrew, Pere, Dario, Amber
