---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #143, 30 August, 2018"
layout: meetings
---

# {{page.title}}

#### *Present/Contributors*: Graeme Stewart, Andrea Valassi, Michel Jouvin, Giulio Eulisse, Eduardo Rodrigues, Serhan Mate, Maria Girone, Davide Costanzo, Tommaso Boccali, David Lange, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, Ian Bird, Markus Klute, Mark Neubauer

News, general matters
=====================
-   ECFA Talk Feedback
    -   Talk was very well received by
        [ECFA](https://indico.cern.ch/event/730568/) and
        they asked for a
        [summary](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1opEikfVJIk8_5cX0UAXR3vFlewGkCrb7qlXxgcfXFp0/edit?usp=sharing)
        that will go into a meeting report delivered to ECFA members.

Activity updates
================

Licensing
---------
-   No activity over the summer. Should follow up with FastJet (Michel).

Training
--------
-   Funding news from Sudhir:
    -   NSF proposal No. 1829707 titled "Collaborative Research:
        CyberTraining: CIC: Framework for Integrated Research Software
        Training in High Energy Physics (FIRST-HEP)" has been fully
        funded for its three year cycle beginning August 1, 2018 - 31
        July 2021.
        [http://first-hep.org/about/](http://first-hep.org/about/)
    - We should follow up on possible collaboration in a future meeting.

Packaging
---------
-   Should re-start activities soon.

Frameworks
----------
-   Had a few meetings amongst key people around CHEP. Hope to follow up
    in the Autumn in one of the HSF slots.

Software Development
--------------------
-   No summer activity. Should plan next meeting given there are some identifiable topics.

Software Forum 
---------------
-   Meetings for after summer now being planned - please suggest and
    volunteer subjects to cover. Check Indico for booked slots:
    -   [https://indico.cern.ch/category/10392/](https://indico.cern.ch/category/10392/)
-   Spark as an idea from Michel, as used by LSST. To follow up.

PyHEP
-----
-   Our post-workshop survey, now closed, was filled in by approximately
    half of the workshop attendees. See
    [https://indico.cern.ch/event/694818/page/14515-surveys](https://indico.cern.ch/event/694818/page/14515-surveys)
    for details.
-   Eduardo to create a Zenodo community to collect all workshop
    contributions, so that DOIs are made - kind action having in mind
    software work recognition.
-   Post-workshop actions/initiatives:
    -   Gitter channel
        [https://gitter.im/HSF/PyHEP](https://gitter.im/HSF/PyHEP)
        for informal community exchange.
    -   GitHub repository
        [https://github.com/hsf-training/PyHEP-resources](https://github.com/hsf-training/PyHEP-resources)
        for "Python in HEP" resources. Soon to be advertised more
        widely once info is a bit more extensive - feel free to
        contribute!
-   Eduardo will give a presentation about "Python in HEP" (1st
    workshop, community activities) to LHCb in 2 weeks. Any interest
    in such a presentation to other experiments?
-   Graeme will give an intro talk for Python to INSIGHTS, only 90 minutes but an opportunity
    to develop material as part of our training, try to base on StarterKit.

Technical Notes
---------------
-   Graeme sent an email with the status of [HSF Platform Naming
    Conventions](https://github.com/HSF/documents/tree/master/HSF-TN/2018-01)
    and [HSF Project Best
    Practices](https://github.com/HSF/documents/tree/master/HSF-TN/draft-2016-PROJ)
    (for the latter, feedback before 31/7/2018).
    -   Nothing received, so Project Best Practices should be promoted
        to a full TN (Markdown -\> LaTeX conversion needed).
    - Give people a little more time to read, given the summer break.

New Working Groups
==================
-   We propose 3 new working groups in the big 3 areas for HEP:
    Simulation, Reconstruction and Analysis.
    -   Let's ask the community more widely as well.
    -   Reco could kick off at HEP.TrkX Software Forum meeting (26 September).
-   Some progress in [identifying
    convenors](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19-Etynm2gO07PGVGSDETmGNStWX3oq6TIpXftsbMoAc/edit?usp=sharing).
    We should aim to conclude rather quickly now.

Generators Software Re-engineering Workshop
===========================================
-   Dates of 26-27 November at CERN identified as possible.
-   Gathering workshop organisers together, hopefully for a [meeting
    next week](https://doodle.com/poll/4kwsgmv6uahqdxnz).
    -   Still weak on concrete offers to help organise from generator
        authors; also would like more input from experiments on their
        priorities and people to be involved.
    -   *Very happy to have other HSF people also help here!*
    -   Have spoken to DOE people.
    -   Frank Siegert can be contacted.
    -   EvtGen - Liz can send details on contact persons.

CWP
===
-   ### General Matters and Roadmap
    -   Revised draft sent to CSBS (references seemed to be missing from
        the original submission).
    -   Graeme contacted by a new Nature journal (Nature Review?) who
        would be interested by publishing the CWP... To be followed
        up.
    -   We got one more author request, but after discussion decided we
        had to turn it down, with the CSBS submission being the end
        point.
-   ### Publication status for Individual WG Papers
    -   **Software Trigger and Event Reconstruction**
        -   Still needs to go to HSF repo
    -   **Data Organisation, Management and Access**
        -   Still in progress\...
    -   **Data and Software Preservation**
        -   Still in Michel's hands\...
    -   **Visualization**
        -   "CWP paper is in a very good shape now: Tom and I worked on
            that in these last weeks and it\'s almost ready to be sent
            to the group for final comments, which I will try to do it
            tomorrow." - Ric

AOB
===
-   HSF Logo in vector format - reminder of action on Benedikt.
-   Next HSF/WLCG workshop
    -   Further discussions about the date led to the conclusion that
        the workshop is pretty much boxed in to happen 18-22 March
        2019:
        -   w/b 28 January is too early and risky for travel to the US
            East coast.
        -   w/b 25 February is a provisional LHCC week, which is
            mandatory for computing coordinators and WLCG project
            leaders,
    -   Discussing the venue, we concluded that BNL would be a good
        place to host this:
        -   ATLAS, Belle II and Nuclear Community home field
        -   Travel to NY is quite straightforward from everywhere
        -   They are keen to organise it and have made a proposal
            -   Registration \~\$220
            -   Hotels \~\$135/night
        -   Downside is that people need to have some car transport
            available - not ideal, but with advanced notice and
            sharing should be feasible
            -   Will probably need to go to Stony Brook campus Thursday
                and Friday, but if people are in cars anyway, not much
                additional burden
    -   JLAB might be an alternative venue (this was also discussed).
        -   Is it very hard? Not so far from Washington (direct flights
            from GVA).
        -   Nuclear community is interesting to us, which could make
            JLAB good.
    -   Dates being 1 month before the LHCC review is sought - that will
        be discussed at the next LHCC meeting.
    - **Conclusion:** we would follow up with JLAB about their availability 
      in 18-22 March slot and with BNL to see if we could avoid changing
      locations mid-workshop.
-   In the context of advertising jobs via the HSF lists there was a
    discussion about setting up a Discourse server for HSF. Bruce
    Becker promoted this idea and we have invited him to make a short
    presentation. (No date set yet though.)
-   There was an
    [update](https://github.com/HSF/hsf.github.io/pull/378)
    to the website to add back/forward navigation links to the meeting
    minutes. Unfortunately it relies on a Jekyll plugin to work, so
    although it's fine locally, but doesn't work for github pages.
    Thanks to Ruben and Liam for the patch though. I have some ideas
    about how to adapt it so that it does work for us.
-   Next week is Jeune Genevois - probably no meeting until
    13 September.
