---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #123, January 25, 2018"
layout: default
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #123, January 25, 2018

#### *Present/Contributors*: Graeme Stewart, Maria Girone, Dario Menasce, Simone Campana, Michel Jouvin, Riccardo Maria Bianchi, Ben Morgan, David Crooks, Daniel Elvira, Elizabeth Sexton-Kennedy, Bernd Panzer-Steindel, John Harvey, Eduardo Rodrigues, Benedikt Hegner, Pere Mato, Mike Sokoloff, Martin Ritter, Giulio Eulisse, David Lange, Mohammad Al-Turany, Michel Jouvin, Mark Neubauer

### News, general matters

-   CERN-EP have launched an 
	[R&D planning initiative](https://ep-dep.web.cern.ch/rd-experimental-technologies){:_target="_ep_rd"} 
	for 'beyond HL-LHC', which also covers software. Jakob Blomer and Graeme
    Stewart are coordinating that working group. Coordination with and
    input from the rest of the community is very welcome. There will
    be a 'lightning talks' meeting for software/computing to gather
    ideas on [February 5th](https://indico.cern.ch/event/699252/)
    and there is a full one day workshop on [March 16th](https://indico.cern.ch/event/696066/).
    -   Software perspective is more continuous than detector
        development, so it's well aligned with the CWP - the
        developments envisaged run from 2020-2025.
    -   Here we can also add things in addition to what we have on the
        roadmap - could be new and more ambitious/higher risk.
-   Graeme wrote a [short newsletter for the website](https://github.com/HSF/hsf.github.io/pull/208) -
    RFC for the rest of today and try to publish it tomorrow,
    -   Q. Does "sign up for our newsletter" actually mean anything
        beyond sending to hep-sf-forum? A. No - we just broadcast to
        the usual list.

CWP
===

-   ### General Matters and Roadmap
    -   CERN Courier would like a 2500-word article on the CWP Roadmap.
        Graeme will meet the editor next week to discuss the outline
        (will be for the April or May issue).
    -   Graeme and Eduardo met with Sarah Charley (US LHC Comms) for a
        series of articles in the Symmetry Magazine. HSF & CWP should
        be one of those.
-   ### Publication strategy for Individual WG Papers
    -   CERN has [agreement with Overleaf](https://authoring.web.cern.ch/authoring/) that may be 
    		useful for any collaborative editing, if needed to finalise the WG papers..
    -   ### Software Development
        -   Done
    -   ### Simulation
        -   John is LaTeXing the document, should be finished tomorrow.
            One round of comments with the authors. Working on the
            full paper right now. Executive summary was to give
            Roadmap input, so probably will not publish this.
    -   ### Machine Learning
        -   Need to chase up coordinators.
    -   ### Software Trigger and Event Reconstruction
        -   Vava and David are finalising and hope to publish the
            document on Monday.
        -   N.B. authors' institutes can be checked with the roadmap.
    -   ### Data Organisation, Management and Access
        -   Michel will try and push with Bo and Andy.
    -   ### Data and Software Preservation
        -   Need to chase up coordinators.
    -   ### Data Analysis and Interpretation
        -   Mark will talk with Oli about this. Hasn't had time yet to
            put effort on getting in final form archive. Will put some
            effort this week and report next week.
    -   ### Visualization
        -   LaTeX is done and Ric and Tom are editing. New version soon.
    -   ### Event/Data Processing Frameworks
        -   Liz and Benedikt incorporating good points from roadmap.
            Meet with Jim next week. 2 weeks to finish (hopefully).
    -   ### Careers, Staffing and Training
        -   Dario has the content in LaTeX. Needs an English cross
            check.
    -   ### Facilities and Distributed Computing
        -   Simone discussed with Ian. Needs a clean up of repetitions.
            Lower priority than LHC strategy document though, so on
            hold tight now.
    -   ### Conditions Access
        -   Paul was working on this. To be followed up.
    -   ### Generators
        -   Need to chase up coordinators.
    -   ### Security
        -   We think no sense in publishing a separate document here.

Upcoming Events
===============

HSF/WLCG Workshop
-----------------

-   ### General points
    -   Finalise the
        [agenda](https://indico.cern.ch/event/658060/timetable/)?.
         - No significant reorganisation anticipated now.
    -   Mike - specific outcomes should be planned as a way of
        organising the sessions.
    -   Really helpful if convenors can invite key people to their
        sessions - this is usually more successful than blanket
        emails.
-   ### Monday
    -   Opening Plenary
        -   Contributions pretty much planned. Soliciting input from
            SKA, but this would have to be in the afternoon and be
            remote. Could be rearranged into the Use Cases session?
    -   Technology Watch
        -   Bernd, Helge and Eric have started to discuss some more
            details.
        -   Will do some tech/market status and predictions.
            Questions/discussions: Relationship to benchmarking, cost
            evaluatio?! How are tech/market changes/forecasts taken
            into account into e.g. data -- workload management ? and
            need probably in general to have more effort spread across
            sites !? selection of prototypes ?
    -   HEP Use Cases
        -   Still looking for co-convenor, Benedikt for now.
-   ### Tuesday
    -   Data Management/Lakes
        -   Maria and Simone will discuss tomorrow.
    -   Frameworks and Infrastructure
        -   Mohammad will discuss with Paolo soon.
    -   Training (Parallel)
        -   Convenors not yet settled here, so that planning the goals
            is currently difficult
            - Discussion on whether training input should be gathered during the workshop
              and then collected at the end. Want to avoid a shopping list, so feeling is that
              a dedicated session on *concrete* training proposals is better. 
        -   Mike suggested Sudhir Malik (malik@fnal.gov)
        -   Dario can also volunteer
    -   DPHEP (Parallel)
        -   Jamie Shiers and Mike Hildredth are convening.
    -   Workload Management (Parallel)
        -   Torre is one convenor (could not come today); still
            soliciting another.
    -   Analysis Facilities and Use Cases
        -   Oli and Eduardo will discuss next week.
-   ### Wednesday
    -   Programming for Concurrency and Co-Processors
        -   Convenors not yet settled here.
    -   Visualisation (Parallel)
        -   Ric started contacting people about contributions. Hope to
            have contributions from other fields too.
    -   Security (Parallel)
        -   David will discuss with Romain soon.
    -   Simulation (Parallel)
        -   John has been contacting people and will have a discussion
            with co-convenors soon.
    -   Performance and Cost Modeling (Parallel)
        -   Markus, Andrea and Pepe started planning (was discussed in
            the WG yesterday).
    -   Technical Discussion on Frameworks (Parallel)
        -   Need convenors
    -   Software Development (Parallel)
        -   Giulio and Martin will discuss soon. Looking at contribution
            of and demands on HSF.
-   ### Thursday
    -   Closing Plenary

PyHEP Workshop
--------------

-   Wide announcement via CHEP's 2nd bulletin sent out on Monday 22nd.
-   Registration now open via CHEP's registration form (optional participation).
    - Cost is only 60 EUR.
-   [Agenda](https://indico.cern.ch/event/694818/) in preparation (will be so for a few weeks, as there is time
    till July ;-)).
    -   Skeleton in indico (meaning the set of sessions).
-   Sponsorship quest ongoing.
    -   So far, sponsorship proposals submitted to Nikhef and CWI (Dutch
        National Centre for Mathematics and Computer Science, where
        Python was born!).
    -   CWI declined. Nikhef is happy to sponsor the event - great, many
        thanks!
    -   Grant proposal to PSF almost ready to be submitted.

Activity updates
================

Licensing
---------
-   Matt Dobbs and Jorgen Beck Hansen have agreed to relicense HepMC
    (v2) under LGPL. FastJet could be rediscussed.

Training
--------
-   No news.

Packaging
---------
-   Group [met yesterday](https://indico.cern.ch/event/688097/).
    Updates on Spack and good discussion on ABI compatibility.

GSoC
----
-   Call for proposals went out.
-   Should add this to the newsletter.
