---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #130, 15 March, 2018"
layout: meetings
---

# {{page.title}}

#### *Present/Contributors*: Graeme Stewart, Pere Mato, Marco Clemencic, David Lange, Paul Laycock, Dario Menasce, Jim Pivarski, Ian Bird, Oli Gutsche, Torre Wenaus, Riccardo Maria Bianchi, Simone Campana, Mark Neubauer, Eduardo Rodrigues, Benedikt Hegner, Michel Jouvin, Mike Hildredth, Daniel Elvira

News, general matters
=====================
-   Research Software Engineers group in the UK contacted us
    -   Looking for sponsorship for
        [RSE2018](http://rse.ac.uk/conf2018/) (3-4
        Sept), which we are not able to give.
    -   However, participating in their conference looks interesting -
        anyone from the UK interested?
-   Are there other conferences where we would like to have an HSF
    presence this year?
    -   Purpose has to be clear: Who we are. What we do. Are we/you
        interested in sharing ideas or resources?

HSF/WLCG Workshop
=================
-   ### General points
    -   199 people registered.
    -   Vidyo rooms are cloned for all the right sessions.
-   ### Outcomes
    -   Discussion this week:
        -   No template slides yet - early next week (unless someone
            else volunteers!)
        -   Oli - HSF curation would be a very important point, let's
            make that a top item and very visible.
        -   Ian - WLCG strategy document has some major things that
            will/should crystallise into working groups
            -   Hope to circulate the document in advance of Naples
        -   Note from Dan Katz that
            [Depsy](http://depsy.org/) project [has
            ended](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://twitter.com/depsy_org/status/970376969782149120&sa=D&ust=1521057055228000&usg=AFQjCNFH-IBN3HOO2Rp0yGApZBWi6FFAdg).
-   ### Agenda Updates
-   #### Monday
    -   HEP Use Cases
        -   Presentation by LHCb will go into the agenda now
        -   Presentation from Simone foreseen - but does this have too
            much of an overlap with Liz's talk? Need to clarify that.
-   #### Wednesday
    -   Programming for Concurrency and Co-Processors
        -   Lost one talk, so coffee break restored to 30'.
    -   Visualisation (Parallel)
        -   Agenda defined.
        -   Discussion about common projects
        -   Contributions from:
            -   CMS/GSI/ROOT
            -   ATLAS
            -   Belle II
    -   Simulation (Parallel)
        -   Pere will help run the session.
    -   Technical Discussion on Frameworks (Parallel)
        -   Session has been further organised. Marco will present one
            of the topics. Jim K may be able to speak about
            serialisation.
-   #### Thursday
    -   Closing Plenary
        -   SKA talk is confirmed (Anna Scaife) - we allocated 30'.
        -   Closing talks on way forward and vision for final 30'.
        -   Need to populate Indico (Pere and Liz).

CWP
===
-   ### General Matters and Roadmap
    -   CERN Courier article was finalised, the April issue will be live
        online from 23 Mar and in print a few days after that.
    -   Symmetry magazine article being chased up internally by editor.
-   ### Publication strategy for Individual WG Papers
    -   ### Simulation
        -   [Uploaded to arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1803.04165)
    -   ### Machine Learning
        -   No news from Sergei
    -   ### Software Trigger and Event Reconstruction
        -   Only needs upload into HSF documents repo.
    -   ### Data Organisation, Management and Access
        -   LaTeX version created, need small fixes. Meeting at the end
            of the week.
    -   ### Data and Software Preservation
        -   Close to final draft circulated this week by Mike Hildreth.
    -   ### Data Analysis and Interpretation
        -   PR to documents repo is in. Small issue in the abstract, but
            easy to fix.
    -   ### Visualization
        -   Finish in the next week.
    -   ### Event/Data Processing Frameworks
        -   Use Naples to draw this together.
    -   ### Careers, Staffing and Training
        -   Want to incorporate thoughts from Naples and revise, given
            the wider community involved there.
    -   ### Facilities and Distributed Computing
        -   Waiting until after the WLCG strategy document is done.
    -   ### Conditions Access
        -   Paul has had no time to make progress.
    -   ### Generators
        -   Discuss at Naples.
     
PyHEP Workshop
==============
-   N(major)TR

Activity updates
================

Packaging
---------
-   Next meeting [21
    March](https://indico.cern.ch/event/712739/). Look at
    the use of Nix in LHCb.

GSoC
----
-   Ask for a report next week.

AOB
===
-   HSF Rebranded!
    -   GitHub organisation changed from HEP-SF to HSF.
        -   GitHub were kind enough to release the name as it was
            claimed, but unused.
        -   Please [update your remotes](https://help.github.com/articles/changing-a-remote-s-url/).
        -   There is an auto-redirect from HEP-SF to HSF.
        -   We will rename the website repository from hep-sf.github.io
            to hsf.github.io.
    -   Propose that we also change the mailing lists from `hep-sf-*` -\>
        `hsf-*`
        -   We already implicitly favoured this with the CWP lists.
        -   Google will treat the old name as an alias.
    -   What about the startup team?
        -   Name doesn't make sense now - we are not starting up.
        -   Rename to just `hsf-team`?
            -   Want to make it clear that it's inclusive and bottom up
                (hence, don't favour `hsf-core-team` or the like).
            -   `hsf-coordination` \<- suggested by Ian, we like it.

