---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #122, January 18, 2018"
layout: default
---

# HSF Weekly Meeting #122, January 18, 2018

### *Present/Contributors*: John Harvey, Riccardo M. Bianchi, Pere Mato, Daniel Elvira, Eduardo Rodrigues, David Lange, Enric Tejedor, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, Ian Collier

### News, general matters

-   GSOC CERN-HSF applying as organization. Feb 12th a notification from
    Google. Start the web pages after this. Administrators: Enric,
    Sergei and Antoin Perou from LAL.

CWP
===

-   ### General Matters and Roadmap
    -   -   
-   ### Publication strategy for Individual WG Papers
    -   ### Software Development
        -   Done.
    -   ### Simulation
        -   John: re-integrate all the changes of the CWP paper to
            reflect the discussions they had. Translation into LaTeX
            is the next challenge.
    -   ### Machine Learning
        -   
    -   ### Software Trigger and Event Reconstruction
        -   
    -   ### Data Organisation, Management and Access
        -   
    -   ### Data and Software Preservation
        -   
    -   ### Data Analysis and Interpretation
        -   .
    -   ### Visualization
        -   Started converting the visualization chapter from GoogleDoc
            to Latex and moved to GitHub. Ric and Tom are working on
            the final editing. Expected by next week
    -   ### Event/Data Processing Frameworks
        -   Liz and Benedikt working on it this Friday
    -   ### Careers, Staffing and Training
        -   
    -   ### Facilities and Distributed Computing
        -   
    -   ### Conditions Access
        -   
    -   ### Generators
        -   
    -   ### Security

Upcoming Events
===============

HSF/WLCG Workshop
-----------------
-   Local organization on track
-   Registration open and announced
-   Contacted possible conveners.
    -   Most sessions covered now
    -   Pending answers for DPHEP and Training
-   Plan is to have a conveners meeting next week
-   It is good to register soon to help the planning

PyHEP Workshop
--------------

-   First announcement email went out this Monday 15th (to the HSF forum
    for a start)
    -   Kindly broadcast it further to relevant mailing lists
-   Paragraph for CHEP's 2nd bulletin ready for the release foreseen for
    next Monday 22nd
-   Skeleton agenda with breaks and all that essentially done
    -   Specific talks still under discussion
    -   Choice/chasing of speakers started
-   Would be neat to get some sort/level of sponsoring
    -   Exploiting various possibilities ... (if you have contacts
        please please let us know)

Activity updates
================

Licensing
---------

-   No news.

Training
--------

-   No news.

Packaging
---------

-   Meeting postponed by one week to 24th of January:
    [[https://indico.cern.ch/event/688097/]{.underline}](https://indico.cern.ch/event/688097/)
-   Our contributions to Spack have been merged upstream.

AOB
===

-   Liz has encouraged people to read CWP. How long do we wait to
    collect signatures?
-   CWP was mentioned by CERN Research Director
-   Eduardo: InterAction.org contacted for possible publication of a
    newsletter about the CWP. Awaiting a reply.
