---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #150, 8 November, 2018"
layout: meetings
---

# {{page.title}}

*Present/Contributors*: Graeme Stewart, R.M.Bianchi (offline), Xiaomei
Zhang, Pere Mato, Tommaso Boccali, Davide Costanzo, Eduardo Rodrigues,
Serhan Mate, Dario Menasce, David Lange, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, Michel
Jouvin, Daniel Elvira, Witek Pokorski, Mark Neubauer

News, general matters
---------------------
### Quantum Computing
-   [OpenLab Quantum Computing workshop](https://indico.cern.ch/event/719844/)
    was this week at CERN.
    -   Huge success, the CERN main auditorium was full (\~400 people
        registered).
-   It looks there is much interest in QC from HEP, especially (at least
    at this stage) at the exploration level.
    -   “We don’t know if we will be able to use QC for our needs, and on
        which timescale, but it would be a shame not to explore the field”
        (freely quoted from F.Carminati).
-   From that there is interest in a new HSF working group looking at QC
    matters
    -   A new “interest group” was started during the workshop, by a
        small group of interested people from different HEP
        experiments (R.M.Bianchi, S.Binet, R.Di Sipio, L.Heinrich,
        M.Pierini), to discuss QC topics: technologies, SW frameworks,
        potential HEP use cases and test tasks, grants, common
        projects.
    -   A new mailing list can be found at the link below (please, feel
        free to subscribe, if interested).
        -   [https://groups.google.com/forum/\#!forum/hsf-quantumcomputing-wg](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/hsf-quantumcomputing-wg)
    -   A new page for the group will be created soon within the HSF web
        site.
-   General comments: Second day much better than the first.
    [OpenLab IBM workshop](https://indico.cern.ch/event/771457/) soon,
    will cover some QC toolkits.

HSF/WLCG/OSG workshop
---------------------
-   Meeting last week to start to plan in more detail the agenda:
    -   Broad outline to start with plenary sessions concentrating on
        experiment and facility plans, which are of common interest.
    -   Then start to split into more technical parallel sessions.
        -   I think for HSF we should try and avoid too much overlap
            between software oriented sessions, but we will have a lot
            to fit in.
        -   Session coordinators will be required.
    -   Friday morning will likely be a final plenary (finish at
        lunchtime).
    - Reminder - send any input you have to David, Graeme, Michel.
-   [Agenda placeholder](https://indico.cern.ch/event/759388/)
-   Practical matters:
    -   Early registration \~\$125, late \~\$175
    -   Dinner event separately billed at \~\$77 (Maritime museum,
        mingling format)
    -   Hotels blocked for \~\$99/night
    -   N.B. No lunch included as options were not attractive on-site,
        90-min breaks envisaged.
    -   We hope to get registration opened ASAP (well before Christmas).
        - Car sharing much encouraged!
-   Question about an open call for abstracts: not planned. Session
    conveners are in charge to identify the potentially interesting
    talks and invite the speaker.
    -   Does not prevent managing specifically the people whose ability
        to attend is linked to the fact they present something, please
        contact organisers to discuss this (and get letters of invitation).

New Working Groups
------------------
-   Final [list of
    candidates](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mJ-fQJjXsb1JZgqXcBh6Y_-kUsvtffSX5JujKdgEzls/edit?usp=sharing)
    is available.
-   Coordination group discussed how to make a balanced selection, with
    a mechanism that allows people to give candid opinions.
    -   Setup a “search committee” to take input confidentially until 16
        November (from all).
    -   SC is Andrea Valassi, Benedikt Hegner, Graeme Stewart, Liz
        Sexton-Kennedy, Michel Jouvin.
    -   Contact:
        [hsf-wg-search-committee@cern.ch](mailto:hsf-wg-search-committee@cern.ch).
    -   SC will propose a list of candidates for further discussion with
        Coordination Team w/b 19 November.
    -   Announce decision 26 November (after Thanksgiving).

Generators Software Computing Workshop
--------------------------------------
-   Preparations almost complete now:
    -   [Indico agenda](https://indico.cern.ch/event/751693/).
    -   Sessions from experiments, generators, optimising use, NNLO,
        HPCs.
-   44 people registered.
    -   Please sign up if you’re coming (otherwise no coffee!).

Activity updates
----------------
### Licensing
-   Would like meeting with the fastjet developers after the generators
    workshop on Tuesday 27 November:
    -   Email sent to Fastjet people this morning trying to confirm the
        possibility.
    -   ATLAS and CMS will give input.
    -   We should get input from KT as well.

### Training
-   Please comment on [David’s training
    survey](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1DEb4h49UiJkUZscIemQaIWub_3jVC5Nn49T1dw6s-ws/edit).

### Packaging
-   [Last meeting](https://indico.cern.ch/event/766022/) was 7
    November.
    -   Discussed Spack work in SFT and also new features in lcgcmake to
        generate local installations.
    -   [Minutes
        here](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/organization/2018/11/07/packaging.html).

### Software Development
-   Planning a meeting in November on monitoring tools - Servesh has
    confirmed his interest.

### Software Forum
-   Yesterday [HEP analysis in the Numpy
    ecosystem](https://indico.cern.ch/event/745288/).
    -   Very interesting discussion on awkward arrays and array
        computation syntax.
-   Next meeting discussion with the [Electron Ion Collider Software
    Consortium](https://indico.cern.ch/event/746526/), 21 November.
-   Topics for next year - please suggest!

### PyHEP
-   HSF page updated to give a better overview of activities, see
    [https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/workinggroups/pyhep.html](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/workinggroups/pyhep.html).
-   Still would like an Intensity Frontier contact.

### Technical Notes
-   All technical notes now have a DOI via Zenodo, see
    [https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/technical\_notes.html](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/technical_notes.html).

CWP
---
#### General Matters and Roadmap
-   [CSBS review
    comments](https://docs.google.com/document/d/16T2RRu1LmAyXTgtKjyWgOwZR8zsVOw2Y1SCntot3_NU/edit?usp=sharing).
-   Editorial secretariat (aka Michel, Eduardo, Graeme, David) worked
    this week!
    -   Hopefully, we think we addressed most of the comments: included
        some refinements to the CWP (new references, a couple of new
        R&D actions for items referenced as important but not in the
        roadmap).
    -   We plan to submit these modifications in the next days.
    -   We still need to sort out a problem with reference resolution
        messing up the PDF rendering.
-   Do we want to update arXiv with the last version (at the end mostly
    improvements)? Yes, we agreed on that.
    
#### Publication status for Individual WG Papers
-   **Data Organisation, Management and Access**
    -   Waiting input from Bo (on holiday at the moment).
-   **Visualization**
    -   The Visualization CWP is now close to completion. [Updated
        documents](https://github.com/HSF/Visualization/tree/master/documents/CWP).
-   **Event/Data Processing Frameworks**
    -   References improved - last circulation to potential wider author
        list then publish.

AOB
---
-   HSF Logo in vector format - reminder of action on Benedikt.


----

Discussion with Xiaomei Zhang on IHEP Software Interests
--------------------------------------------------------

See [slides](https://indico.cern.ch/event/771928/contributions/3207408/attachments/1749042/2833170/IHEP_with_HSF_-2018.11.8.pdf).

* Small software group in IHEP, supporting running and future experiments.
  * Discussed that CEPC would be a massive project.
* Several areas where we would like to collaborate identified.
  * Are IHEP willing to contribute to software developments as well as use
    them? Yes.
* Important to get people to the JLab workshop as a first step in face to
  face discussions.
* Timezone is a practical difficulty, given that meetings are pulled to
  maximise US/EU attendance.
* A visit (sometime next year?) of a few key HSF members to China could be
  an additional good step to establishing common work programmes.
* [Xiaomei Zhang](mailto:Xiaomei.Zhang@cern.ch) can act as point of first
  contact.
