---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #149, 25 October, 2018"
layout: meetings
---

# {{page.title}}

*Present/Contributors*: Michel Jouvin, Pere Mato, Daniel Elvira,
Alaettin Serhan, Paul Laycock, James Amundson, Pete Elmer, Mark
Neubauer, Sudhir Malik, Eduardo Rodrigues

## News, general matters

  - Eduardo’s presentation at the CMS ECOM2X WG7 meeting. He raised the awareness that CMS collaborators should be more active in community-wide initiatives such as HSF.

## HSF/WLCG/OSG workshop

  - We made the first [<span class="underline">official announcement</span>](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/hsf-forum/c0DOv84A4iU)
    to ‘save the date’ (18-22 March 2019).
      - Please forward to your experiments/communities.
  - First ideas of topics we need to cover are in a
    [<span class="underline">Google Doc</span>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14LhcqpeJ6nQtvcPUkkoKolw4E2upGX_lPoG7574uzZc/edit?usp=sharing).
      - Comments and suggestions welcome - please check we did not
        miss anything major.

  - Next organising meeting probably next week.
      - We should get at least a stub agenda up soon and plan to open
        registration soon.
      - Difficulties to get the people for start the organization.
      - Need to have the proper balance between the computing/sites
        topics and the software with HSF topics.

## New Working Groups

  - Mandate was put on the [<span class="underline">HSF
    Website</span>](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/organization/working-group-mandates.html).

  - Call for convenors was renewed, reminded that the deadline is 29
    October.
      - A couple of new nominations received; this is the
        [<span class="underline">up-to-date
        list</span>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19-Etynm2gO07PGVGSDETmGNStWX3oq6TIpXftsbMoAc/edit?usp=sharing).

## Generators Software Computing Workshop

  - [<span class="underline">Indico
    agenda</span>](https://indico.cern.ch/event/751693/).
      - Timetable has been filled in with a lot more detail on the
        presentations and confirmed speakers.
  - 35 people registered so far
  - Planning a hackathon event on Wednesday 28th, exact topics to be
    decided with input from a short survey.

## Activity updates

### Licensing

  - Would like meeting with the fastjet developers. Why they need more
    than the GPL?

### Training

  - Please comment on [<span class="underline">David’s training
    survey</span>](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1DEb4h49UiJkUZscIemQaIWub_3jVC5Nn49T1dw6s-ws/edit).

### Packaging

  - Due to a sparse agenda and various clashes,
    [<span class="underline">next
    meeting</span>](https://indico.cern.ch/event/766022/) will be 7
    November.

### Frameworks

  - NTR

### Visualisation

  - NTR

### Software Development

  - Would like to organise a meeting in November on monitoring tools.

### Software Forum 

  - Next meeting is [<span class="underline">HEP analysis in the Numpy
    ecosystem</span>](https://indico.cern.ch/event/745288/), 7
    November.
  - Topics for next year - please suggest\!

### PyHEP

  - Website update in the pipeline (Eduardo) to give a better overview
    of activities:
      - Chat channel on Gitter, resources repo on GitHub.

### Technical Notes

  - Most technical notes now have a DOI with Zenodo, see
    [<span class="underline">https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/technical\_notes.html</span>](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/technical_notes.html)
    (thanks Andrew\!).

  - The remaining ones will get the DOI shortly.
  - Eduardo: curated these on Zenodo so all show up in HSF community,
    see
    [<span class="underline">https://zenodo.org/communities/hsf</span>](https://zenodo.org/communities/hsf).

## CWP

#### General Matters and Roadmap

  - [<span class="underline">CSBS review
    comments</span>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/16T2RRu1LmAyXTgtKjyWgOwZR8zsVOw2Y1SCntot3_NU/edit?usp=sharing).
  - [<span class="underline">Response/rebuttal</span>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y1xrJxPkJcGxpuF_7NrCfCqLiy4b4Ahg2zZoQ9SWNCk/edit)
    of the reviewers comments is being prepared: a meeting planned
    next week to finalize them

#### Publication status for Individual WG Papers

  - **Data Organisation, Management and Access**
    
      - Waiting input from Bo

  - **Visualization**
    
      - The Visualization CWP is now close to completion.
        [<span class="underline">Updated
        documents</span>](https://github.com/HSF/Visualization/tree/master/documents/CWP)

  - **Event/Data Processing Frameworks**
    
      - Working on references.

  - **Facilities and Distributed Computing**
    
      - No news

  - **Conditions Access**
    
      - No news

## AOB

  - HSF Logo in vector format - reminder of action on Benedikt.

  - The IRIS-HEP Software Institute is in the process of ramping up. 
    Kickoff workshop next week. After the WS the 
    team will begin communicating more concretely its plans for the 
    next year to 18 months. A bunch of open positions are already 
    open at [<span class="underline">http://iris-hep.org/jobs</span>](http://iris-hep.org/jobs).
