---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #129, 8 March, 2018"
layout: meetings
---

# {{page.title}}

#### *Present/Contributors*: Graeme Stewart, Dario Menasce, Torre Weanus, Charles Leggett, Paolo Calafiura, Pere Mato, Daniel Elvira, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, David Crooks, Eduardo Rodrigues, Maria Girone, Pete Elmer, David Lange, Oli Gutsche, Helge Meinhard, Giulio Eullise, Simone Campana, Mark Neubauer, Martin Ritter

HSF/WLCG Workshop
=================
-   ### General points
    -   196 people registered.
    -   Rooms for each of the sessions have now been put into Indico.
        Note that plenary sessions are all in the hotel; during the
        parallel sessions we use the main hotel room plus 2 rooms
        in the conference centre. The two venues are 200m apart.
    -   We have coffee available in both locations when necessary. All
        the lunches are at the conference centre.
    -   Vidyo Rooms are created (one for each location). Graeme is the
        owner. If everyone knows the moderation PIN is this enough to 
        manage these?
-   ### Outcomes
    -   First list of general questions that convenors could consider
        when thinking about their sessions. Aimed at identifying what
        projects we can realise after Naples; and for those we cannot,
        how do we enable them?
        -   What projects were identified that we can advance from the
            CWP Roadmap as a community?
            -   How will these be followed up on?
            -   Are the timescales for the project well defined?
            -   Is the project sufficiently covered for effort right now?
                Do we need to ask for further involvement (other
                experiments or groups)?
            -   Does the project have resource needs that are not yet
                covered? (Infrastructure and funding.)
        -   What projects were identified that we can't advance from
            the CWP Roadmap as a community?
            -   Are these critical items for the next decade?
            -   Can a case for funding these items be developed?
        -   Are there links with other (non-HEP) communities...
            -   That are established or that would be desirable?
        -   How will the projects developed improve our community's use
            of developer effort between experiments? Can we enhance
            that?
        -   What's the best way of organising ourselves (meetings,
            workshops, mailing lists) to work effectively in the next
            few years?
    -   Post CWP R&D: How does HEP-TrkX connect with ACTS (for example)?
        How do these projects work together? This is an important
        question.
    -   R&D that will inform the ATLAS and CMS computing TDRs is a very important milestone.
    -   HSF could curate a map of projects, make sure they are well
        known.
        -   Good for projects to have information pages.
        -   Knowledge Base is still there, but doesn't seem to be well
            maintained or curated at the moment (updated curation is
            crucial!).
            -   Motivation is a bit back to front - it's the things you
                don't know which are the ones you care about.
            -   Could we take a [Depsy](http://depsy.org/)
                like approach about finding cross-links between
                software projects?
        -   CMS have worked on a list of projects they are involved in,
            some EU funded.
    -   Have regular project presentations - take inspiration from the
        much loved Concurrency Forum.
    -   Want to address what the meaning of an HSF project actually is -
        what value can HSF bring to projects that come under the
        umbrella.
        -   Source of advice and expertise.
        -   Means of raising awareness.
        -   Do we help with funding applications? Yet to be proven, but
            surely does no harm.
        -   Discussion on this foreseen in Software Development session.
-   ### Monday
    -   Opening Plenary
        -   Not much change - Taylor Childers will contribute to the US
            funding situation talk
    -   Technology Watch
        -   Call for input broadcast to the community.
    -   HEP Use Cases
        -   Need to go through the list to find speakers. Liz/Daniel
            will help follow up with Erica.
-   ### Tuesday
    -   Data Management/Lakes
        -   The data management sessions will have a small adjustment
            (One talk of 5', highlights for XDC). Otherwise the agenda
            is confirmed.
    -   Frameworks and Infrastructure
        -   Iterating on question/themes for session speakers.
    -   Training (Parallel)
        -   Speakers invited, all have accepted: they were provided a
            template to help them delivering homogeneous talks from
            their individual perspective. This will facilitate the
            round table: needs and proposal will be based on an equal
            footing. First outcome should be a proposal on how to
            organize the "Training" activity by joining forces among
            existing (and future) initiatives.
    -   DPHEP (Parallel)
        -   Good agenda - not clear if all speakers are found.
    -   Workload Management (Parallel)
        -   For the workload management session all speakers are
            effectively confirmed.
    -   Analysis Facilities and Use Cases
        -   NTR.
-   ### Wednesday
    -   Programming for Concurrency and Co-Processors
        -   NTR
    -   Visualisation (Parallel)
        -   NTR.
    -   Performance and Cost Modeling (Parallel)
        -   Discussed yesterday, seems well planned.
    -   Software Development (Parallel)
        -   Asked Sandro about static analysers. Will discuss about the
            profilers soon.
    -   Simulation (Parallel)
        -   Talks in good dhape. John can't be physically in Naples (need a second person to
            help in-vivo).
    -   Security (Parallel)
        -   Discussion on OpSec section on Monday this week, slide
            preparation underway.
    -   Technical Discussion on Frameworks (Parallel)
        -   Some problems organising this session. Now envisage more of
            a follow on discussion based on CWP and continuation of
            the Frameworks and Infrastructure session.
-   ### Thursday
    -   Closing Plenary
        -   Need to chase up SKA talk.
        
CWP
===
-   ### General Matters and Roadmap
    -   CERN Courier article got a few improvements after Ed Board
        feedback. Will appear in April edition.
        -   Will circulate the proof to the startup team.
    -   Symmetry magazine article status we are not sure about - to be
        followed up.
-   ### Publication strategy for Individual WG Papers
    -   ### Simulation
        -   Ready to go to arXiv now, with a finalised author list.
            Merged into hsf-documents repo.
    -   ### Machine Learning
        -   No news.
    -   ### Software Trigger and Event Reconstruction
        -   Done. Needs merged into hsf-documents repo.
    -   ### Data Organisation, Management and Access
        -   Current contents considered in very good shape
        -   Plan is to convert to LaTeX in the coming days, check the
            consistency with the global roadmap next week and call for
            authors as soon as the content is final
    -   ### Data and Software Preservation
        -   No news
    -   ### Data Analysis and Interpretation
        -   Added abstract (was missing) and completed editing pass.
            Will make pull request with the latest changes and then
            get sign-off from authors in preparation for submission.
    -   ### Visualization
        -   No news
    -   ### Event/Data Processing Frameworks
        -   A version went to the github document repo. Still needs more
            work.
    -   ### Careers, Staffing and Training
        -   Want to incorporate thoughts from Naples and revise, given
            the wider community involved there.
    -   ### Facilities and Distributed Computing
        -   Waiting until after the WLCG strategy document is done.
    -   ### Conditions Access
        -   No news
    -   ### Generators
        -   Should discuss this at Naples and see how to move forward.
        
PyHEP Workshop
==============
-   N(major)TR

Activity updates
================

Licensing
---------
-   HepMC3 authors agreed to assign copyright to CERN and apply an LGPL
    license. CERN copyright is recognised as using the lab as a
    favourable copyright holder for the community. Authors
    acknowledgement file makes sure contributors get appropriate
    credit ("git log" tells all, of course!).
    -   Could HepMC3 become an HSF project? Would need to improve a few
        technical points, but in principle it's a good candidate.
        (N.B. HSF is not a legal entity, can't hold copyright.)
- Discussion on copyright - authors should decide who the appropriate
  entity is to hold this (associated labs are good). Aim for simplicity is our
  advice - one copyright holder is best.

Packaging
---------
-   Meeting
    [yesterday](https://indico.cern.ch/event/708110/).
    Converged on use cases document and had an interesting discussion
    on Spack's missing/awkward features.
-   Next meeting [21
    March](https://indico.cern.ch/event/712739/). Look at
    the use of Nix in LHCb.

AOB
===
-   Agreed that getting DOIs for technical notes is a good thing to do.
    Just need to give people practical advice on this (Eduardo).
-   US conceptualisation on Research Software Sustainability Institute
    starting. Workshop in Berkeley to kick off next month. See
    [http://urssi.us/](http://urssi.us/). Mark Neubauer will
    attend.
