---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #147, 11 October, 2018"
layout: meetings
---

# {{page.title}}

*Present/Contributors*: Graeme Stewart, Serhan Mate, Marilena
Bandieramonte, Dario Menasce, Sudhir Malik, Davide Costanzo, Andrea
Valassi, Jim Amundson, Pere Mato, Witek Pokorski, Eduardo Rodrigues,
Tommaso Boccali, Simone Campana, David Lange, Ed Moyse, Pete Elmer,
Robert Langenberg, Mark Neubauer, Caterina Doglioni, Liz Sexton-Kennedy,
Daniel Elvira

News, general matters
=====================
-   Maria Girone contacted us for an HSF speaker for the CMS ECOM2X
    (committee looking at software and computing evolution for Run3
    and Run4). Eduardo agreed to do that.

HSF/WLCG/OSG workshop
=====================
-   OSG have now confirmed their participation in the 3-way workshop at
    JLab 18-22 March next year.
-   Next step is to try and identify topics we want to make sure are
    covered, and prepare a draft agenda.
    -   Meeting next week for WLCG/HSF people.
    -   Please send any early thoughts to Graeme/Michel/David
        (organising for HSF).

New Working Groups
==================
-   [*Draft mandate
    document*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lvgBqCk1kWgY90iAkjl84eLbO3b1qllEDRvG8FVfemI/edit?usp=sharing).
-   Some comments made by Caterina and Frank (thanks!). Now all
    converted into concrete suggestions.
    - Each proposed change was discussed and refined, then we agreed on it.
    - Concrete deliverables were raised, how much can we push these?
        - Can’t put too many constraints on
          conveners for things that it is not in their power to deliver.
          Main deliverable is a functioning community.
        -   Dario - make this bottom up.
    -   **Meeting agreed on the mandate now.**
-   Would like to now call for further nominations.
    -   One or two weeks?
        -   Two weeks. Graeme will send the call.

Generators Software Computing Workshop
======================================
-   [Indico agenda](https://indico.cern.ch/event/751693/).
    -   Organisation progressing well, quite a number of speakers
        confirmed, 25 people registered.
    -   Next [meeting](https://indico.cern.ch/event/763170/) for the
        organisers immediately after this one...

Activity updates
================

Packaging
---------
-   Next meeting tentatively next week (get in touch with Graeme or Ben
    for any topics to present).

Software Forum
---------------
-   Successful [*meeting
    yesterday*](https://indico.cern.ch/event/745286/) with a
    presentation on optimisation work done in CERN IT.
    -   Some discussion over estimated gains from using vectorised
        instructions.
    -   Minutes in preparation.
-   Open slot in two weeks time, 24 October.
    -   Any volunteers?
-   Then further topics will go into 2019.

PyHEP
-----
-   We want to converge and identify a representative from the Intensity
    Frontier to
    join the efforts. If you know of a great candidate (yourself or
    ...), please shout ASAP.


CWP
===
-   ### Publication status for Individual WG Papers
    -   **Event/Data Processing Frameworks**
        -   Abstract added and few mistakes fixed in [this
            PR](https://github.com/HSF/documents/pull/103);
            references and final author list still need done (should
            not take too long).

AOB
===
-   HSF Logo in vector format - reminder of action on Benedikt.
-   There was a discussion with Claire Boudarios (ATLAS) about outreach
    activities and the HSF’s involvement there.
    -   Graeme - no activity in this area as far as I am aware.
    -   Is anyone interested in this topic?
        -   Dario and Pete are - Graeme will pass on contact details.
-   [http://hepsoftware.org/](http://hepsoftware.org/) has been down
    for a week - tracked as a [GitHub
    issue](https://github.com/HSF/hsf.github.io/issues/390).

---

Training Discussion
===================

[Slides](https://indico.cern.ch/event/764014/)

-   Our goal is to start a concrete activity.
-   IRIS-HEP has a small training component.
-   FIRST-HEP is totally dedicated to training.
    -   Try and strengthen training in the whole community.
-   Tier 1 - build out of StarterKit, and Software Carpentries.
-   Tier 2 - this is HEP specific, but could organise more “boot camps”
    and BOFs.
-   Tier 3 - already an established network of schools.

-   Dario - we didn’t yet have time to work on more specific plans
    -   What about University engagement? Traditionally this is quite
        weak in Europe.
        -   Our model adapts to an inhomogeneous intake already, and
            seems a much more tractable problem to start with graduate
            students.
        -   Liz - most physics computing teaching done by physicists
            already.
    -   If funding is US based, how can we make sure that there are
        similar initiatives for Europe?
        -   CERN based training will help (but students still need to
            get here and be funded...).
        -   Also doing regional events at which students will be
            present.
-   Liz - if something at FNAL should we include neutrino people?
    -   Yes.
- Pulling off something practical (Tier 1 training and
  survey, detailed on the final slide) is more important.
  - **Meeting agreed to that.**
-   CMS: FNAL is natural.
-   ATLAS: CERN? Could be a good place to bootstrap? Graeme,
    Davide to follow up.
    -   Key point to build up this cohort of trainers, who then have
        their own regional connections.
-   Sudhir - want to tie this to a concrete CMS event, maybe beginning
    of next year.
-   Training survey - there was a draft floating around, need to
    re-circulate it.
    -   Graeme thinks ATLAS did do something in this area (perhaps
        tangentially), he will follow up.
-   *Promote training as part of people’s mental landscape*
