---
title: "HSF Weekly Meeting #148, 18 October, 2018"
layout: meetings
---

# {{page.title}}

*Present/Contributors*: Graeme Stewart, Andrea Valassi, Pere Mato,
Daniel Elvira, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, Serhan Mete, David Lange, Ed Moyse,
Heather Gray, Ian Collier, James Amundsen, Michel Jouvin, Tommaso
Boccali

News, general matters
---------------------
-   “US Research Software Sustainability Institute
    ([URSSI](http://urssi.us)) conceptualization project, looking
    for your opinions about needs in the US research software
    community”. [10-15 minute
    survey](https://nd.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_8ik4azGuHmojKW9).
    Dan Katz confirmed this is mainly for the US community.

HSF/WLCG/OSG workshop
---------------------
-   We made the first [official
    announcement](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/hsf-forum/c0DOv84A4iU)
    to ‘save the date’ (18-22 March 2019).
    -   Please forward to your experiments/communities.
-   First ideas of topics we need to cover are in a [Google
    Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14LhcqpeJ6nQtvcPUkkoKolw4E2upGX_lPoG7574uzZc/edit?usp=sharing).
    -   Comments and suggestions welcome - please check we did not miss
        anything major.
-   Next organising meeting probably next week.
    -   We should get at least a stub agenda up soon and plan to open
        registration soon.
-   Topics also announced at the GDB yesterday.

New Working Groups
------------------
-   Mandate was put on the [HSF
    Website](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/organization/working-group-mandates.html).
-   Call for convenors was renewed, until 29 October.
    -   Several new nominations received; this is the [up-to-date
        list](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19-Etynm2gO07PGVGSDETmGNStWX3oq6TIpXftsbMoAc/edit?usp=sharing).
    -   If there is a need to choose between the nominations, HSF
        Coordination will be asked to do so.
-   Stubs for new working groups added to the website.

Generators Software Computing Workshop
--------------------------------------
-   [Indico agenda](https://indico.cern.ch/event/751693/).
    -   Timetable has been filled in with a lot more detail on the
        presentations and confirmed speakers.
-   33 people registered.
-   Planning a hackathon event on Wednesday 28th, exact topics to be
    decided with input from a short survey.
-   Comments about licensing?
    -   It’s important, but not the “critical” item.
    -   TBD, so a topic for the next organisers meeting.

Activity updates
----------------

### Licensing
-   Still hoping to meet with FastJet authors in the week of the
    Generators Workshop.
    -   ATLAS, CMS input.
    -   Input from OpenLab about companies like IBM not agreeing to run
        at their facilities a code which is GPL.

### Training
-   Graeme, Davide and James met to discuss ATLAS follow-up after last
    week’s training focused discussions.
    -   Definite interest in holding a ‘StarterKit’ like event in
        advance of the next ATLAS induction week/software tutorial at
        CERN.
        -   Dates being followed up.
    -   Core skills of interest: Git, Shell, Python, C++.
    -   Following up with Sudhir and Pete for FIRST-HEP collaboration.
-   Please comment on [David’s training
    survey](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1DEb4h49UiJkUZscIemQaIWub_3jVC5Nn49T1dw6s-ws/edit).

### Packaging
-   Due to a sparse agenda and various clashes, [next
    meeting](https://indico.cern.ch/event/766022/) will be 7
    November.

### Software Development
-   Would like to organise a meeting in November on monitoring tools.

### Software Forum
-   Next meeting is [HEP analysis in the Numpy
    ecosystem](https://indico.cern.ch/event/745288/), 7 November.
-   Topics for next year - please suggest!

### PyHEP
-   Continuing to make contact with neutrino community.
-   See Software Forum topic for next meeting!
-   Website update in the pipeline (Eduardo) to give a better overview
    of activities.

### Technical Notes
-   Eduardo and Andy McNab following up on DOIs for some of the
    technical notes.

CWP
---
-  ### General Matters and Roadmap
    -   [CSBS review
        comments](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y1xrJxPkJcGxpuF_7NrCfCqLiy4b4Ahg2zZoQ9SWNCk/edit?usp=sharing).
    -   Michel had the first look at the changes needed and created a
        [GitHub Issue](https://github.com/HSF/documents/issues/105)
        to track.
        -   Comments initially appear to be minor, but actually many of
            them will require some significant work.
            -   References for statements where we know that they will
                be very hard to get.
        -   Suggestion to re-discuss with the CSBS editors as the paper
            is hard to review in the standard way.
            -   As this is a community paper it’s really impossible to
                re-iterate with the whole community regarding
                significant changes.
            -   Perhaps we propose to publish a lightly modified version
                or not at all?
    -   Proposal - we should make a response/rebuttal of the reviewers
        comments by the end of the month. Categorise:
        -   Easy to fix and doable.
        -   Hard to fix but doable.
        -   Not fixable.
    -   Have a meeting of the HSF Ed Board by end of the month.

AOB
---
-   HSF Logo in vector format - reminder of action on Benedikt.
-   http://hepsoftware.org/ was fixed,
    thanks to Torre ([GitHub
    issue](https://github.com/HSF/hsf.github.io/issues/390)).
-   Website was restructured a bit to add the new working group stubs.
    -   Graeme suggests we now split “activities” and “working groups”
        to avoid having too long a menu in the drop down.
    -   Absorb “Get involved!” link into the “About” dropdown to avoid
        the navigation bar from getting too wide.
    -   Will be developed as a PR for comment.
        -   (Turns out that absolute internal site links make website
            previews hard, but not obvious how to fix that.)
-   Next week Graeme is away, so need a volunteer to chair the meeting.
    -   Pere can do this.
-   At the GDB yesterday there was a [good
    talk](https://indico.cern.ch/event/651358/contributions/3172626/attachments/1735653/2807220/protoDUNE_CERN_GDB_20181017.pdf)
    about Dune software and computing by Ken Herner.
