<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head lang="en">
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1 user-scalable=no">
    <title>HSF Weekly Meeting #125, 8 February, 2018</title>
    <link rel="icon" type="image/x-icon" href="/images/hsf_logo_angled.png">

    <!-- bootstrap framework -->
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/bootswatch/3.3.5/flatly/bootstrap.min.css">

    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/hsf.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<div class="navbar navbar-default">
    <div class="container">
        <div class="navbar-header">
          <a href="/" class="navbar-brand"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-home"></span>&nbsp;&nbsp;HSF</a>
          <button class="navbar-toggle" type="button" data-toggle="collapse" data-target="#navbar-main">
            <span class="icon-bar"></span>
            <span class="icon-bar"></span>
            <span class="icon-bar"></span>
          </button>
        </div>
        <div class="navbar-collapse collapse" id="navbar-main">
          <ul class="nav navbar-nav navbar-center">
            <li class="dropdown">
              <a class="dropdown-toggle" data-toggle="dropdown" href="/index.html" id="wg_menu"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-briefcase"></span>&nbsp;&nbsp;Working Groups<span class="caret"></span></a>
                <ul class="dropdown-menu" aria-labelledby="activities_menu">
                  <li><a href="/what_are_WGs.html">What are HSF working groups?</a></li>
                  <li class="divider"></li>
                  
                    <li><a href="/workinggroups/dataanalysis.html">Data Analysis</a></li>
                  
                    <li><a href="/workinggroups/detsim.html">Detector Simulation</a></li>
                  
                    <li><a href="/workinggroups/frameworks.html">Frameworks</a></li>
                  
                    <li><a href="/workinggroups/generators.html">Physics Generators</a></li>
                  
                    <li><a href="/workinggroups/juliahep.html">JuliaHEP - Julia in HEP</a></li>
                  
                    <li><a href="/workinggroups/pyhep.html">PyHEP - Python in HEP</a></li>
                  
                    <li><a href="/workinggroups/recotrigger.html">Reconstruction and Software Triggers</a></li>
                  
                    <li><a href="/workinggroups/toolsandpackaging.html">Software Developer Tools and Packaging</a></li>
                  
                    <li><a href="/workinggroups/training.html">HSF Training</a></li>
                  
               </ul>
            </li>
            <li class="dropdown">
              <a class="dropdown-toggle" data-toggle="dropdown" href="/index.html" id="activities_menu"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-briefcase"></span>&nbsp;&nbsp;Activities<span class="caret"></span></a>
                <ul class="dropdown-menu" aria-labelledby="activities_menu">
                 <li><a href="/what_are_activities.html">What are HSF activity areas?</a></li>
                 <li class="divider"></li>
                 
                   <li><a href="/activities/analysisfacilitiesforum.html">Analysis Facilities Forum</a></li>
                 
                   <li><a href="/activities/conditionsdb.html">Conditions Databases</a></li>
                 
                   <li><a href="/activities/differentiablecomputing.html">Differentiable Computing</a></li>
                 
                   <li><a href="/activities/gsdocs.html">Season of Docs</a></li>
                 
                   <li><a href="/activities/gsoc.html">Google Summer of Code</a></li>
                 
                   <li><a href="/activities/idds.html">intelligent Data Delivery Service</a></li>
                 
                   <li><a href="/activities/licensing.html">Licensing</a></li>
                 
                   <li><a href="/activities/reviews.html">Reviews</a></li>
                 
                   <li><a href="/activities/visualization.html">Visualisation</a></li>
                 
               </ul>
            </li>
            <li class="dropdown">
              <a class="dropdown-toggle" data-toggle="dropdown" href="/index.html" id="meetings_menu"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-phone-alt"></span>&nbsp;&nbsp;Meetings<span class="caret"></span></a>
                <ul class="dropdown-menu" aria-labelledby="activities_menu">
                 
                   <li><a href="/meetings/compute-accelerator-forum.html">Compute Accelerator Forum</a></li>
                 
                   <li><a href="/meetings/coordination.html">Coordination Meetings</a></li>
                 
                   <li><a href="/meetings/roundtable.html">Software and Computing Roundtable</a></li>
                 
                   <li><a href="/meetings/software-forum.html">Software Forum</a></li>
                 
               </ul>
            </li>
            <li class="dropdown">
              <a class="dropdown-toggle" data-toggle="dropdown" href="/index.html" id="communication_menu"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-bullhorn"></span>&nbsp;&nbsp;Communication<span class="caret"></span></a>
                <ul class="dropdown-menu" aria-labelledby="communication_menu">
                  <li><a href="/future-events.html">Community Calendar</a></li>
                  <li><a href="https://indico.cern.ch/category/5816/" target="_hsf_indico">Meetings: Indico</a></li>
                  <li><a href="/Schools/events.html">Training Schools</a></li>
                  <li class="divider"></li>
                  <li><a href="/forums.html">Mailing Lists and Forums</a></li>
                  <li><a href="/organization/minutes.html">Meeting Notes</a></li>
                  <li><a href="/technical_notes.html">Technical Notes</a></li>
                  <li><a href="/organization/documents.html">Documents</a></li>
                  <li><a href="/material_for_presentations.html">Material for presentations</a></li>
                  <li class="divider"></li>
                  <li><a href="/newsletter.html">Newsletters</a></li>
                  <li><a href="/events.html">Events &amp; Workshops</a></li>
                  <li><a href="https://www.youtube.com/c/HEPSoftwareFoundation" target="_hsf_youtube">HSF on YouTube</a></li>
                  <li class="divider"></li>

                  <li><a href="/inventory/inventory.html">HSF Project Inventory</a></li>
                </ul>
            </li>
            <li class="dropdown">
              <a class="dropdown-toggle" data-toggle="dropdown" href="/projects.html" id="projects_menu"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-road"></span>&nbsp;&nbsp;Projects &amp; Support<span class="caret"></span></a>
                <ul class="dropdown-menu" aria-labelledby="projects_menu">
                  <li><a href="/project_guidelines.html">How to join as a project</a></li>
                  <li><a href="/projects.html">Member Projects</a></li>
                  <li class="divider"></li>
                  <li><a href="/services.html">Development Services</a></li>
                </ul>
            </li>
          </ul>
          <ul class="nav navbar-nav navbar-right">
            <li class="dropdown">
              <a class="dropdown-toggle" data-toggle="dropdown" href="/index.html" id="about_menu"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-info-sign"></span>&nbsp;&nbsp;About<span class="caret"></span></a>
              <ul class="dropdown-menu" aria-labelledby="about_menu">
                <li><a href="/get_involved.html">Get involved!</a><li>
                <li><a href="/organization/team.html">The Coordination Team</a></li>
                <li><a href="/organization/planning/plan-of-work-2023.html">HSF Planning</a></li>
                <li class="divider"></li>
                <li><a href="/organization/goals.html">Goals of the HSF</a></li>
                <li><a href="/organization/cwp.html">Community White Paper</a></li>
                <li><a href="/organization/hsf-letters.html">Letters from the HSF</a></li>
                <li><a href="/organization/presentations.html">HSF Presentations</a></li>
                <li><a href="/organization/youtube.html">HSF YouTube Channel</a></li>
                <li class="divider"></li>
                <li><a href="/howto-website.html">Website Howto</a></li>
              </ul>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>


<div class="container">

<div class="PageNavigation">

  <!-- Note that page sorting is reverse time ordered, so "next" refers to the previous
       meeting in time and "previous" to the next one -->
  
   <p class="alignleft"><a href="/organization/2018/02/07/packaging.html">&nbsp;&#8592; HSF Packaging Group Meeting #18, February 7, 2018</a></p>
  

  
    <p class="alignright"><a href="/organization/2018/02/15/startup.html">HSF Weekly Meeting #126, 15 February, 2018 &#8594;&nbsp;</a></p>
  

</div>

<div style="clear: both;"></div>


<hr>

  <h1 id="hsf-weekly-meeting-125-8-february-2018">HSF Weekly Meeting #125, 8 February, 2018</h1>

<h4 id="presentcontributors-graeme-stewart-giulio-eulisse-eduardo-rodrigues-mike-sokoloff-mike-hildreth-benedikt-hegner-helge-meinhard-daniel-elvira-david-crooks-jim-pivarski-torre-wenaus-riccardo-maria-bianchi-liz-sexton-kennedy-marco-clemencic-eric-lancon-paolo-calafiura-david-lange-frunk-wuerthwein-mohammad-al-turany-oli-gutsche-eric-lançon-alessandra-doria"><em>Present/Contributors</em>: Graeme Stewart, Giulio Eulisse, Eduardo Rodrigues, Mike Sokoloff, Mike Hildreth, Benedikt Hegner, Helge Meinhard, Daniel Elvira, David Crooks, Jim Pivarski, Torre Wenaus, Riccardo Maria Bianchi, Liz Sexton-Kennedy, Marco Clemencic, Eric Lancon, Paolo Calafiura, David Lange, Frunk Wuerthwein, Mohammad Al-Turany, Oli Gutsche, Eric Lançon, Alessandra Doria</h4>

<h1 id="news-general-matters">News, general matters</h1>

<ul>
  <li>Contacted by the organiser (promoter?) of the <a href="https://foss-backstage.de/">FOSS
Backstage</a> conference.
    <ul>
      <li>“The conference on everything related to governance,
collaboration, legal and economics within the scope of FOSS”.</li>
      <li>Not immediately clear if this would be actually interesting for
us, although the related <a href="https://berlinbuzzwords.de/">Berlin
Buzzwords</a>
event does seem well established (open source big data
conference).</li>
      <li>Apache Foundation are an event partner (does this make it more
real?).</li>
      <li>Call for papers until 18th February.</li>
      <li>Graeme will follow up.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

<h1 id="hsfwlcg-workshop">HSF/WLCG Workshop</h1>

<ul>
  <li>
    <h3 id="general-points">General points</h3>
    <ul>
      <li>After discussion we swapped Security and Performance Costs WG
sessions on Wednesday, adding an extra Performance and Costs
hands-on session as well.
        <ul>
          <li>Barring any crises, agenda is final.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>We will be able to have a contribution from SKA on Thursday
morning, hopefully in person. This will eat into the closing
plenary a bit, but we feel it’s a valuable contribution to
include.</li>
      <li>87 registered - this is ok, not great.
        <ul>
          <li>Can convenors and HSF advocates invite people to come?
Individual invitations take time, but have a much higher
success rate than blanket emails.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Early registration closes on 16th February.</li>
      <li>Mike S - could use some S2I2 conceptualisation funds to help
people from the US to come for HSF pieces: younger
participants or session convenors; labs included.</li>
      <li>Sponsor contributions to the workshop.
        <ul>
          <li>Rittal sent a title and a short abstract:
            <ul>
              <li>STATE-OF-THE-ART PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FOR HPC:
Enabling HPC through a modular physical infrastructure
is a must to ensure the best performance and an
effective TCO. Minimized operative costs, and a
scalable investment are key success factors in
implementing HPC efficient platforms.</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>Still waiting for the abstract from Dell/Intel, they said we
will receive it tomorrow.</li>
          <li>We don’t know yet the names of the presenters.</li>
          <li>Will the sponsor presentations be included in the Technology
Watch session? A. Yes.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    <h3 id="monday">Monday</h3>
    <ul>
      <li>Opening Plenary
        <ul>
          <li>In good shape - all talks planned.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Technology Watch
        <ul>
          <li>Planned the session now (for 90 minutes, 30 goes to vendors).</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>HEP Use Cases
        <ul>
          <li>List of topics and speakers is created - will contact people
in the next week.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    <h3 id="tuesday">Tuesday</h3>
    <ul>
      <li>Data Management/Lakes
        <ul>
          <li>Session is now planned in Indico.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Frameworks and Infrastructure
        <ul>
          <li>Planning on three 30’ talks: broadly speaking dedicated to
online aspects (including GPU/coprocessor management),
offline aspects (including thread/process/node
management), and HPC parallelization, trying to cover
multiple experiments/frameworks.</li>
          <li>Boundaries with WMS and Fwk Technical to be discussed.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Training (Parallel)
        <ul>
          <li>No news.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>DPHEP (Parallel)
        <ul>
          <li>Mike H and Jamie S did some planning on the session:
Certification, CWP goals, brainstorming.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Workload Management (Parallel)
        <ul>
          <li>Four topics added to the agenda, not yet mapped to (~4
or 5) talks. More info in <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/14_VqEx5mWZrzGxKPZZWoOBe0ml0BduuFGEkQgG0FbFM/edit?usp=sharing">a googledoc linked from the
agenda</a>.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Analysis Facilities and Use Cases
        <ul>
          <li>Agenda finalised and skeleton up online.</li>
          <li>Potential speakers all contacted, 2/5 confirmed.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    <h3 id="wednesday">Wednesday</h3>
    <ul>
      <li>Programming for Concurrency and Co-Processors
        <ul>
          <li>Still seeking co-convenor.</li>
          <li>Areas:
            <ul>
              <li>Trigger</li>
              <li>GeantV</li>
              <li>Parallel tracking</li>
              <li>Parallel processing models - developer of Dask from
anaconda (outwith HEP)
                <ul>
                  <li>We discussed this proposal and it was well received.</li>
                </ul>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Visualisation (Parallel)
        <ul>
          <li>Riccardo &amp; Tom started to gather proposals and filling the
agenda.</li>
          <li>A potential talk from an outside-of-HEP institute:
University of Ljubljana Computing Science department.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Simulation
        <ul>
          <li>Two sessions: faster simulation and improving physics.</li>
          <li>Have a list of speakers and contributions prepared.
            <ul>
              <li>Some speakers will be remote, need a good vidyo setup.</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>Can put these into the agenda now - Andrea or Daniel will
do it.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Security (Parallel)
        <ul>
          <li>Second convenor from CMS? Brian Bockelman still might help
out.</li>
          <li>Topics, for further drafting and sorting into talks:</li>
          <li>Trust and Policies
            <ul>
              <li>GDPR</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>Authentication and Authorisation
            <ul>
              <li>Authorisation WG status/summary</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>Operational Security
            <ul>
              <li>Requirements for operational security in the future</li>
              <li>Threat Intelligence</li>
              <li>Discussion</li>
              <li>Operational security technology requirements (SOC WG
status &amp; summary)</li>
              <li>Traceability</li>
              <li>Containers/Singularity</li>
              <li>IPv6</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Performance and Cost Modeling (Parallel)
        <ul>
          <li>Progress in planning in the WG meetings.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Technical Discussion on Frameworks (Parallel)
        <ul>
          <li>Need to clarify which technical aspects of frameworks should
be discussed.</li>
          <li>In the plenary want to tackle the boundary between nodes and
processing framework.</li>
          <li>Technical session would try to decompose where we are on
frameworks and address the CWP roadmap goals.
            <ul>
              <li>E.g., is TBB still an optimal choice?</li>
              <li>What is a good cadence for updating framework
components?</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Software Development (Parallel)
        <ul>
          <li>Martin still in Japan. Giulio starting to think about
possible discussion topics:
            <ul>
              <li>Project Incubation:
                <ul>
                  <li>Does the Incubator model of Apache make sense for
HSF?</li>
                  <li>As a project leaders what would make me move to HSF?</li>
                  <li>As a HSF reviewers what are the minimum requirement
for incubating a project?</li>
                  <li>Graeme: can HSF provide a source of technical knowledge (design, implementation).</li>
                </ul>
              </li>
              <li>Project discussions:
                <ul>
                  <li>Packaging requirements, what is missing? How do we
scale to multiple project which have completely
different timescales and requirements in terms of
software stacks? How do we integrate into
mainstream?</li>
                  <li>Static analysers. All the LHC experiments / projects
use some form of static analysers, mostly based on
clang. How do we contribute back all those efforts
so that everyone can profit from that?</li>
                  <li>Profilers. How do we share and compare profile data
between different tools and experiments?</li>
                  <li>GVFS: git has become the defacto standard VCS in HEP
and in the world. Is GVFS the next big revolution
in the way we work? If yes, what are the
implications / possibilities?</li>
                </ul>
              </li>
              <li>Becoming mainstream:
                <ul>
                  <li>What are the OpenSource conferences / workshops we
should try to have a more “active” presence?
                    <ul>
                      <li>Python ones?</li>
                      <li>FOSDEM?</li>
                    </ul>
                  </li>
                  <li>Geek watch: how do we share information about the
latests tools and practices? Mailing list?</li>
                </ul>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Thursday
    <ul>
      <li>Closing Plenary
        <ul>
          <li>Anticipate SKA contribution here: 20-30 minutes.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

<h1 id="cwp">CWP</h1>

<ul>
  <li>
    <h3 id="general-matters-and-roadmap">General Matters and Roadmap</h3>
    <ul>
      <li>arXiv update a little delayed - announcement was late and
waiting for CMS resource plots with the correct axes labels
(MHS06s -&gt; THS06s)
        <ul>
          <li>We now have all the pieces though, so this can be done
~now.</li>
          <li>Added 10 new signatures since last week.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Computing and Software for Big Science - discussed with Markus
Elsing. He did not think it would be a problem to update the
signatures after submission, but is confirming with other
editors and Springer.
        <ul>
          <li>The lead time for publication is &gt;8 weeks, so we would be
ok to take signatures until the Naples workshop.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    <h3 id="publication-strategy-for-individual-wg-papers">Publication strategy for Individual WG Papers</h3>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <h4 id="simulation">Simulation</h4>
        <ul>
          <li>There is a final version of the long note; circulating
amongst the authors and calling for supporters.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

<h1 id="pyhep-workshop">PyHEP Workshop</h1>

<ul>
  <li>Good progress with agenda and finding speakers.</li>
  <li>Sponsorship from PSF awaiting news (expect anytime within the next 2
weeks).</li>
</ul>

<h1 id="activity-updates">Activity updates</h1>

<h2 id="licensing">Licensing</h2>
<ul>
  <li>No news.</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="training">Training</h2>
<ul>
  <li>Pete Elmer is putting together an NSF proposal that might find some
HEP community training under the HSF umbrella.
    <ul>
      <li>Will be useful to discuss this further in Naples.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

<h2 id="packaging">Packaging</h2>
<ul>
  <li>Meeting 7 Feb:
<a href="https://indico.cern.ch/event/700265/">https://indico.cern.ch/event/700265/</a>
    <ul>
      <li>Homing in on Use Cases Document.</li>
      <li>Heard about SpackDev plans.</li>
      <li>Report on use of Spack for FCC.
        <ul>
          <li>Further discussion in the next meeting</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Next meeting 21 Feb:
<a href="https://indico.cern.ch/event/704402/">https://indico.cern.ch/event/704402/</a></li>
</ul>

<h2 id="gsoc">GSoC</h2>
<ul>
  <li>Proposals in, waiting for Google to confirm CERN-HSF as an organisation 
in the GSoC 2018 programme, which should happen by Feb. 12th.</li>
</ul>



<hr>

<div class="PageNavigation">

  <!-- Note that page sorting is reverse time ordered, so "next" refers to the previous
       meeting in time and "previous" to the next one -->
  
   <p class="alignleft"><a href="/organization/2018/02/07/packaging.html">&nbsp;&#8592; HSF Packaging Group Meeting #18, February 7, 2018</a></p>
  

  
    <p class="alignright"><a href="/organization/2018/02/15/startup.html">HSF Weekly Meeting #126, 15 February, 2018 &#8594;&nbsp;</a></p>
  

</div>

<div style="clear: both;"></div>


<br><br>
<div class="footer fixed-bottom">
Thanks to <a href="https://pages.github.com/">GitHub Pages</a>, <a href="http://jekyllrb.com/">Jekyll</a> and <a href="http://getbootstrap.com/">Bootstrap</a>
</div>

</div> <!-- container -->


<!-- Google Analytics -->

<!-- Google Analytics end -->

<script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-2.1.4.min.js"></script>
<script src="https://maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/3.3.4/js/bootstrap.min.js"></script>
</body>
</html>
